--- 
permalink: 'chap8.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap8">Chapter 8: Business Travel in Argentina</h1>
 
* Business Customs
* Currency
* Travel Advisory
* Visa Requirements
* Telecommunications
* Transportation
* Language
* Health
* Local Time, Business Hours and Holidays
* Temporary Entry of Materials
* Web Resources

###Business Customs

U.S. businesspeople should take the time to develop a close personal relationship with their agent, representative, distributor, or other business partner. Argentine business customs are generally more formal than those in the United States. Business dress, appearance, and general demeanor are more conservative.

Courtesy is very important, and efforts to rush a business deal are likely to be unsuccessful. No encounter starts with a business discussion. To develop a solid business relationship and establish trust it is important to devote some time to discussing family members, sports, and social activities. At meetings it is important to shake hands with everyone in the room upon arrival and departure. Among Argentines it is customary for men to kiss women they meet for the first time on the right cheek. However, Americans should shake hands with Argentine women until a friendly relationship has been established.

Contacts and introductions are important and therefore, it is advisable to use the services of the U.S. Commercial Service at the U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires, or other organizations such as the American Chamber of Commerce, industry associations, and other intermediaries, rather than rely on a direct "cold call" approach. The U.S. Commercial Service in Argentina offers a complete package for the businessperson to meet with potential business partners.

It is important that you arrive promptly to business meetings, though your Argentine contact may be slightly late, and to always have a pre-arranged appointment. Be sure to have an ample supply of business cards. Although not essential, it is beneficial to have cards printed in Spanish as well as English.
 
One cultural note is that it is not good form to say you are from "America." In Latin America, the term "America" denotes both North and South America, not just the United States. Therefore, it is better to call yourself a “North American” (_norteamericano_).

Return to Top

###Currency

The Argentine currency is the peso and is signified by the same symbol ($) as the U.S. dollar. ATM machines are widely available in Buenos Aires, allowing travelers with a variety of credit or debit cards to withdraw funds automatically in local currency. Although usually accepted at most hotels, traveler’s checks are often refused by business establishments and can be difficult or expensive to change at banks. Note that you will be able to obtain pesos only at ATMs, due to currency controls.

Visitors should be cautious of strangers offering to exchange currency. This black market (often referred to as the “blue” or “azul” market) is illegal and participants could be subject to arrest and prosecution. Participants may also open themselves to attack by criminal elements.

Return to Top

###Travel Advisory

Please consult the Department of State's Bureau of Consular Affairs web site for general travel information and the site's section on Travel Warnings for country-specific information: [http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1130.html#crime](http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1130.html#crime).

Return to Top

###Visa Requirements

Visas are not required for U.S. citizens traveling to Argentina for up to 90 days of tourism or business, except holders of U.S. Diplomatic and Official passports. However, the Argentine Government implemented a reciprocal Visa Fee on all foreign nationals whose governments require visas of Argentines. This fee must be paid online at the Provincia Pagos website, before you board a flight for Argentina. Once paid, you must print out the receipt and present it to the Argentine immigration officer at the time of entry. Airlines will not allow you to board unless you present the receipt as proof of payment. The link to the site is: [http://www.migraciones.gov.ar/accesible/templates/reciprocidad/reciprocidad.htm](http://www.migraciones.gov.ar/accesible/templates/reciprocidad/reciprocidad.htm).

For American citizens, the fee is currently $160.00 and is valid for ten years and multiple entries into Argentina. Visitors may request an extension of stay up to 90 additional days from the Argentine Immigration Service at:
 
_Dirección Nacional de Migraciones_

(National Immigration Services)

Av. Antártida Argentina 1355, Edificio 1, Piso 

1 C1104AC Buenos Aires, Argentina

Phone: (54-11) 4311-7695 or 4313-2777 

Fax: (54-11) 4313-1778

Email: [info@migraciones.gov.ar](info@migraciones.gov.ar)

Website: [http://www.migraciones.gov.ar/accesibleingles/](http://www.migraciones.gov.ar/accesibleingles/)

Argentine citizens traveling to the United States for any purpose require a U.S. visa. For more information on U.S. visa application procedures, visit [http://travel.state.gov/visa/](http://travel.state.gov/visa/).

####Work and other Extended Visas

Although it is theoretically possible to arrange a work permit following arrival in Argentina, the process is much more complicated and time-consuming than applying for the work visa abroad, and one may not legally begin remunerated employment until permission has been granted. Therefore, it is important to begin the work visa process as early as possible by applying at an Argentine consular office in the United States or abroad. This process can still be quite lengthy and require many civil documents (e.g., birth and marriage certificates) and police certificates. U.S. civil documents submitted to Argentine consular offices do not require Argentine consular certification. The government of Argentina requires only a Hague Convention apostille certificate from the Secretary of State of the U.S. state where the document was issued or from the U.S. Department of State for U.S. federal government-issued documents.

Argentine immigration law provides for the following temporary and permanent resident categories and conditions:

•	_Transitory residents, tourists, and students_ are not allowed to carry on a remunerated or profitable activity unless expressly authorized by the immigration authorities.

•	_Temporary residents_ may perform such activities during their authorized stay if they obtain a work permit. The work permit can be obtained from the immigration authorities at the Immigration Office after filing relevant documentation. The permit authorizes a stay from one to three years.

•	_Permanent residents_ may perform any type of remunerated or profitable activity, either as employees or self-employed.
 
There are special immigration provisions for some foreign professional, scientific, or technical research personnel hired abroad to render services in Argentina for a maximum of two years. They must not be residents in Argentina and must be covered for contingencies such as old age, disability, or death by the law of their own country.

U.S. Companies that require travel of foreign businesspersons to the United States should be advised that security evaluations are handled via an interagency process. Visa applicants should go to the following links.

•	State Department Visa Website: [http://travel.state.gov/visa/](http://travel.state.gov/visa/)

•	United States Visas.gov: [http://www.usimmigrationsupport.org/visas.html](http://www.usimmigrationsupport.org/visas.html)

•	U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires: [http://argentina.usembassy.gov/](http://argentina.usembassy.gov/)

•	U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires, Visa Information: [http://argentina.usembassy.gov/visas.html](http://argentina.usembassy.gov/visas.html)

Return to Top

###Telecommunications

Telephone service, both international and local, is adequate, with several providers such as Telecom, Telefónica, Claro, Nextel, and Movistar, among others, offering service. Cell and smart phones are widely used and available. There is also a wide range of cable television channels available, including CNN International, _CNN en Español_, FOX, WB, Sony, MTV, and channels from Brazil, Chile, Mexico, France, Germany, Italy, and elsewhere. Cable and satellite TV are very common.

####Electric Current

Electric current in Argentina is AC 220 volts, 50 cycles in the case of one phase; AC 380 volts, 50 cycles for three phases. Electric plug configurations are usually 2-3 flat pins with the top two slightly angled to form a "Y" shape or two round-tipped straight pins.

Return to Top

###Transportation

U.S. carriers flying to Argentina include American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and United Airlines. The primary gateways are Dallas, Houston, Miami, New York, and Atlanta. The Argentine carrier, Aerolineas Argentinas, also flies between the U.S. and Argentina. In-country travel, and travel between Argentina and other South American countries, is widely available from a variety of Argentine and foreign carriers. Two main airports serve Buenos Aires; Aeroparque Jorge Newbery, which is located near downtown serving domestic flights and some regional flights to Uruguay and Paraguay, and Ezeiza International Airport, which is a 45-minute drive from Buenos Aires, serving all other international flights, including those from the U.S.
 
Taxis are plentiful and are generally the most effective way of moving around Buenos Aires. A widely available private car service, called "_remise_", is also available and is the recommended method of travel from Ezeiza International Airport into Buenos Aires. _Remise_ services have counters at the airport. For security reasons, the U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires recommends that travelers use either _remises_ or radio taxis, rather than hailing taxis on the street.

Travel in Argentina can be accomplished by train, bus, or car, although air travel is recommended for many trips to key cities in the provinces due to large distances. Automobile rental is available throughout the country, although it is quite expensive compared to U.S. rental costs. Travelers should be aware that Argentina has a high rate of auto accidents, and driving is not recommended for short visits.

Return to Top

###Language

Spanish is the national language of Argentina, although many businesspeople speak English as well as other European languages. Do not assume, however, that your contacts will speak English. For U.S. businesspeople who already speak Spanish, note that Argentina has distinct differences in pronunciation, cadence, and vocabulary.

Almost all business in Argentina is conducted in Spanish, and all documents and records must be in that language to constitute valid evidence. Business documents in a foreign language should be translated by a certified public translator to be presented for legal purposes to Argentine authorities. A list of certified public translators is available upon request from the U.S. Commercial Service in Argentina ([Office.BuenosAires@trade.gov](Office.BuenosAires@trade.gov)).

Return to Top

###Health

Buenos Aires has no particular health risks and no special precaution needs to be taken. Sanitary conditions are good. Tap water is safe. Many competent doctors, dentists, and specialists are available in Buenos Aires. Outside of Buenos Aires or other major cities, basic precautions, such as drinking bottled water, are recommended. Prior to travelling to Argentina, it is advisable to consult with your medical professional and review the Department of State's Bureau of Consular Affairs web site for general travel information: [http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1130.html#medical](http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1130.html#medical).

Return to Top

###Local Time, Business Hours, and Holidays

Argentina is three hours behind Greenwich Mean Time (UTC). Argentina is + 1 hour U.S. Eastern Daylight Time (Summer Time) and +2 hours Eastern Standard Time (winter). The 24-hour system is used rather than the 12-hour a.m. / p.m. system. There is only one time zone for all of Argentina. Click here for the current time in Argentina.

Formal business office hours are Monday through Friday from 9.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. (two hours earlier for factories) with one-hour lunch break, but many office workers begin and end their days later. Work luncheons are frequent for business people and they generally extend from 1.00 to 3.00 p.m. Business dinners and dinners in general begin at 9.00 p.m. Most retail stores are open from 9.00/10.00 a.m. to between 6.00 and 9.00 p.m., Monday through Saturday; however, many small shops close for the weekend at 1:00 or 2:00 on Saturday. Banks are open to the public from Monday through Friday from 10.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.

Since Argentina is in the Southern Hemisphere, its seasons are the reverse of those in the Northern Hemisphere. Summer in the United States is winter in Argentina, and vice versa. School summer vacations take place from approximately Christmas to March, instead of June through August, and there is a two week winter school vacation in July.

It is often difficult to conduct business in Argentina in January and February, since most businesses are either closed or working on a limited schedule. Ask your business contacts when it is best to come, and plan travel times and clothing accordingly. Summer, December through March, is hot and humid in Buenos Aires. The coldest months are July and August (winter), with temperatures between 30°F and 50°F.

####Holidays

Argentine National Holidays for 2013:

New Year’s Day:	Tuesday, January 1

Carnival:	Monday, Feb.11 & Tuesday, Feb.12

National Memorial:	Sunday, March 24

Good Friday:	Friday, March 6

Holiday for Tourism:	Monday, April 1

Malvinas’ Veteran and Memorial Day:  Tuesday, April 2

Labor Day:	Wednesday, May 1

Revolution Day:	Saturday, May 25

Flag Day:	Thursday, June 20

Holiday for Tourism:	Friday, June 21

Independence Day:	Tuesday, July 9

Death of San Martin:	Monday, August 19

Columbus Day:	Monday, October 14

Sovereignty Day:	Monday, November 25

Immaculate Conception:	Sunday, December 8

Christmas Day:	Tuesday, December 25

In addition, Government offices, banks, insurance companies, and courts are closed on a number of "non-work days", but closing is optional for business and commerce, such as Holy Thursday (immediately before Easter). The U.S. Embassy closes on all U.S. Federal holidays in addition to Argentine holidays.

Return to Top

###Temporary Entry of Materials and Personal Belongings

According to Argentine law, personal working elements such as laptop computers, cellular phones, and other tools must be registered at Customs at the time of entry and again upon departure from Argentina. Samples brought into the country by a traveling salesperson are admitted free of duty provided they have no commercial value. Otherwise, the traveler may be required to deposit a 90-day bond that is refunded when the goods leave the country.

Argentina is not a party to the A.T.A. (Temporary Admission) Carnet program of the U.S. Council for International Business to import goods, display booths, and literature for display in local trade shows for subsequent re-export. The Argentine Temporary Admission Regime (TAR) allows duty free admission of goods such as commercial samples, packaging, pallets, containers, and goods for exhibits. These items must be re-exported within the timeframe stipulated by Customs on entering the country. Many trade show organizers are able to obtain a special waiver from the Argentine government on a case-by-case basis.

Return to Top

###Web Resources

•	Business Travel Information: [http://export.gov/argentina/businesstravelinformation/index.asp](http://export.gov/argentina/businesstravelinformation/index.asp)

•	Argentina Ministry of Tourism: [http://www.turismo.gov.ar/eng/menu.htm](http://www.turismo.gov.ar/eng/menu.htm)

•	ArgentinaTuristica.com: [http://www.argentinaturistica.com/2datosargen.htm](http://www.argentinaturistica.com/2datosargen.htm)

•	Consular Information Sheet: [http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1130.html](http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1130.html)

•	City of Buenos Aires Under secretariat of Tourism: [http://www.bue.gob.ar/?m=home/index.php&lang=en](http://www.bue.gob.ar/?m=home/index.php&lang=en)

Return to Top

Return to table of contents

