--- 
permalink: 'chap5.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap5">Chapter 5: Investment Climate in Argentina</h1>
 
Although the country hosts 500 U.S. companies that employ more than 155,000 Argentines, the Government of Argentina (GOA) has taken actions in recent years that have dampened the investment climate and made the business environment challenging, especially for new entrants to the market. The GOA has signaled its desire to see continued foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to enhance the nation’s productive capacity and GDP growth potential, but longstanding concerns regarding the stability of contractual rights and the regulatory environment diminish the attractiveness of prospective investments in some sectors. GOA actions to curb the remittance of profits abroad have also led some foreign companies to question whether their money should be invested in the country if they are unable to access it later. Currency controls delay companies’ access to dollars to pay suppliers. The GOA introduced an all-encompassing import licensing system that has made importing the materials necessary for day-to-day operations burdensome. Factories and distributors occasionally sit idle while the GOA delays granting approval to move inputs through customs, a process that can be restrictive and unpredictable. Companies have reported being unable to import to Argentina unless they have a trade balancing plan on file that puts them on a path to ensuring they bring in as much foreign exchange into Argentina as they take out. The GOA has not complied with its obligations under the Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) or the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (ICSID Convention) to pay final and binding arbitral awards rendered in investor-state arbitration under the BIT.

Following an economic crash in 2002 and the then-largest sovereign default in history, real GDP began to recover and grew at an average rate of 7.2 percent between 2003 and 2011. Growth has lately stalled; private analysts estimate Argentine GDP growth in 2012 was 1.4 percent (official figures are not considered reliable). High growth since 2003 has led to a recovery in key socio-economic indicators which had been buffeted by the 2002 crisis, including a reduction in unemployment from 21.5 percent in 2002 to 7.6 percent during the third quarter of 2012, according to official figures. In December 2012, Central Bank reserves were about USD 43 billion, up from a low of USD 9 billion in 2002. However, they were down from a high of over USD 52 billion at the end of 2010 due to being used to service debt, maintain the exchange rate, and meet other balance of payment needs. Many economic indicators ― with the notable exception of high inflation ― are still positive, though 2012 saw lower economic growth and a decline in investment.

**For these reasons we encourage U.S. companies interested in investing in Argentina to thoroughly read the in-depth report on Investment Climate published** [here]( http://www.state.gov/e/eb/rls/othr/ics/2013/204592.htm) and to[contact us](http://export.gov/argentina/contactus/index.asp) for more information.

Return to Top

Return to table of contents

