--- 
permalink: 'chap3.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap3">Chapter 3: Selling U.S. Products and Services</h1>

* Using an Agent or Distributor
* Establishing an Office
* Legal Structures Commonly Used by Investors
* Franchising
* Direct Marketing
* Joint Ventures/Licensing
* Selling to the Government
* Distribution and Sales Channels
* Selling Factors/Techniques
* Electronic Commerce
* Trade Promotion and Advertising
* Pricing
* Sales Service/Customer Support
* Protecting Your Intellectual Property
* Due Diligence
* Local Professional Services
* Web Resources


###Using an Agent or Distributor

International companies typically market their products through an Argentine agent/representative or a distributor. Working with a distributor has several advantages. Distributors can provide strategic support for positioning brands in the market through promotion and advertising. Furthermore, they understand the local culture and can assist with after-sales service. This value-added service is increasingly important for customers and contributes to a positive image of U.S. firms doing business abroad. Due to import restrictions there are situations in which the best solution is a representative. To discuss this further, please [contact us](http://export.gov/argentina/contactus/index.asp).

The Civil and Commercial Codes govern principal-agent relations and differ from U.S. laws. We strongly recommend that an Argentine lawyer be consulted prior to entering into any type of agreement with an agent/distributor and engaged prior to substantive negotiation of the agreement terms. No special legislation has been enacted to regulate the cancellation of agency/distribution agreements, although a company could incur additional costs associated with the cancellation of an agency agreement under Argentine labor law. Given the complexity of the legal and commercial environment, contracts are generally negotiated in writing through the exchange of reversal letters or via a basic instrument. The parties may not elect foreign laws to govern the agreement. Argentine courts will not enforce a contract executed abroad to avoid Argentina law.

U.S. companies should take time in selecting their Argentine agent/distributor. Business relationships and a good reputation are essential to an agent/distributor’s ability to reach potential customers of your product or service. The mutual trust that this builds will help prevent business disputes and help resolve them amicably when they do arise. The U.S. Commercial Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce assists exporters in finding and evaluating partners in Argentina.

Contact the nearest U.S. Department of Commerce Export Assistance Center, where trade specialists can provide you with guidance on entering the Argentine or other international markets. Please call 1-800-USA-TRADE (1-800-872-8723) to locate the one nearest you or visit the U.S. Government Export Portal at [http://export.gov/eac/](http://export.gov/eac/). You may also contact us at the U.S. Commercial Service in Buenos Aires directly for additional information on partner search services, applicable fees and delivery times.

Return to Top

###Establishing an Office

Foreign companies may carry out any single transaction. To carry on a routine activity, a foreign company must establish a branch (_sucursal_) in Argentina. An individual must be appointed as the company's legal representative, but assignment of capital to the branch is not necessary.

####Legal Structures Commonly Used by Investors

Regardless of whether they are associated with local investors, foreign investors may do business in Argentina as individuals or through corporations, branches of foreign corporations, limited liability companies, limited partnerships, general partnerships, and joint ventures. Foreign corporations often operate in Argentina through a separately incorporated subsidiary rather than through a branch, primarily to reduce their potential liability. If a branch is used, all of the foreign corporation's assets, not only its Argentine assets, may be subject to potential liability. In contrast, if an Argentine or foreign subsidiary is used, the foreign corporation's liability generally will be limited to the assets owned by that subsidiary.

Registration Procedures: a law effective throughout Argentina regulates corporations. Corporations are set up with the approval of at least two legal or natural persons, whether Argentine or foreign.

A corporation may not be a partner in a partnership. A corporation can usually be established in three to four weeks if capital is supplied only in cash. If supplied in kind, the corporation can be established in about two months. A minimum of two founders is required with no maximum limit. Company founders must report a domicile in Argentina.

A minimum of two shareholders is required. No maximum is prescribed. Should a foreign company wish to act as shareholder of a local company, the company must be “qualified.” The cost of qualification proceedings is similar to the incorporation cost.

U.S. firms considering establishing operations in Argentina should fully investigate the tax and legal aspects of establishing a business with legal counsel before making any final decisions. To obtain a list of law firms, please [contact us](http://export.gov/argentina/contactus/index.asp).

Return to Top

###Franchising

The local franchising industry is a challenging and highly competitive environment for international franchisors seeking local partners. Current market size is approximately $5 billion, with an annual growth rate of approximately 10 percent. Franchising sales account for approximately 2 percent of Argentina’s GDP. Currently, 88 percent of local franchises are of Argentine origin and approximately 12 percent are of international ownership.

There are 612 franchise brands, encompassing 27,621 units that employ approximately 165,000 people. During 2013, it is projected that approximately 2,700 new units will be opened in the marketplace, mainly in the apparel and food sectors. Tourism and health are two new segments in which franchising are growing.

The most popular areas for international franchisors are apparel, fast food, foreign language training, dry cleaning, hotels, and car rental services. Local franchises have been particularly successful in apparel, food, ice cream, "empanada" pastries, fitness/health clubs, and education. Coffee shops and stores are currently going through a growth stage, with local brands such as Havanna and Bonafide having more than 120 stores each. Starbucks entered the Argentine market in 2008, opening over 30+ stores since entrance. Other significant U.S. market players include Kodak Express, McDonald's, Burger King, Wendy’s, Cartridge World, Kentucky Fried Chicken, and Re-Max.

Franchise contracts are generally protected under the Argentine Commercial Code and are not governed by specific legislation. The scope of the service, commercial trade market/name, expertise, and shared production elements are covered by contractual obligations on both franchisor and franchisee. Elements of the contract include the license, methods/systems or proprietary information transferred to a franchisee, inputs supply, sales methods, quality standards, and ultimate control by franchisor of the contract elements.

Franchises have been successfully used in Argentina, but the obligations of the franchisor must be clearly established in the contract to avoid potential liabilities related to the operator, such as default, bankruptcy, etc. There are initiatives to advance a Franchising Bill to fully formalize the industry, but legal counsel should be sought prior to entering the Argentine marketplace and appointing a franchisee.
 
Return to Top

###Direct Marketing

E-commerce is increasingly a part of daily life, particularly given a higher penetration of home broadband connections. Traditionally, companies that sell cosmetics, kitchenware, fragrances, and books have been most likely to utilize direct marketing tools. However, the increasing use of the Internet is enabling other firms/sectors to penetrate the market. Companies selling household consumer goods, electronic devices, merchandising, books and CDs, computer hardware, tourism services, and cars publish their product catalogs on-line.

Some imported products are marketed directly through cable and satellite TV programs. Mail-order marketing is still not as widespread in Argentina. Mail distribution prices remain high, while duties and other taxes to be paid on international mail order merchandise depend on the nature of the product or mode of shipment. In addition, there are restrictions on imports of printed material.

Return to Top

###Joint Ventures/Licensing

Argentine legislation permits the establishment of temporary associations, equivalent to joint ventures, known as UTEs (_Unión Transitoria de Empresas_). This is an association of two or more individuals or companies that contribute assets to develop or perform a particular transaction in Argentina or outside the country using Argentina as its base of operations. UTEs are not considered companies or legal entities in their own right. Participants may be resident businesspeople, locally constituted entities, or non-resident companies that have established a separate branch or other type of Argentine presence.

A contract must be signed and registered with the Public Commercial Registry at the Office of the Inspector General of Justice (_Inspección General de Justicia_) in the Federal Capital, or its provincial equivalent. The contract must contain the objective, duration, name and other specific information regarding the partners' responsibilities, financial contribution, and many other specific clauses. It must also provide for the appointment of a legal representative in charge of management.

Return to Top

###Selling to the Government
* Procurement from Local Companies
* Buy Argentine Preferences
* Preferential Treatment
* Foreign Goods
* Disputes

Decrees 436/2000,1023/2001 and 1818/2006 together with Resolution 515/2000 establish the rules applicable to federal government purchases. They can be downloaded (in Spanish) from the following web site: [https://www.argentinacompra.gov.ar/](https://www.argentinacompra.gov.ar/).

These regulations apply to all federal public agencies (including autonomous or decentralized institutions), but exclude federal banks. They also establish the amounts determining the selection process. Government purchases of less than AR$75,000 undergo direct purchase. Purchases between AR$75,000 and AR$300,000 undergo private bidding, but purchases over that amount must have an open public tender.

Advertising and publishing procedure terms apply regarding important contracts in main publications and Internet sites such as the National Contracting Office (Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones - ONC) as well as in the Official Bulletin and publications of suppliers associations. Requirements for first-time sales to the government depend on the type of provider. Information should be submitted in writing and in the form of a diskette.

The ONC is the agency supervising procurement for the National Public Administration. This Office is part of the Secretariat of Public Management, Chief of Cabinet.

**Contact Information:**

_Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones_

(National Contracting Office) Email:[onc@sgp.gov.ar](onc@sgp.gov.ar)

Website: [https://www.argentinacompra.gov.ar/](https://www.argentinacompra.gov.ar/)

Most provincial governments have their own web sites with procurement information. Unión Argentina de Proveedores del Estado (UAPE) is a prominent NGO looking out for the interests of companies participating in national, provincial, and municipal procurements. UAPE has a database of government procurements. More information can be found at [http://www.uape.org.ar/](http://www.uape.org.ar/).

####Procurement from Local Companies (“Buy Local” Regime)

Law 25551, issued on November 2001 and implemented by Decree 1600/2002, established the “Buy Argentine” Regime. The "_Compre Trabajo Argentino_" regime obligates all government agencies, public and privatized utilities, and concessionaires to purchase domestic materials, goods and products, provided that the price is "reasonable" (_precio razonable_) and the performance is identical or similar (_idénticas o similares prestaciones_) to that of the imported/foreign goods offered, as defined by regulatory Decree 1600/2002 of August 28, 2002. In March 2011, the Argentine Senate approved an amendment to Law 25551, extending the entities subject to the “Buy Argentine” regime. The draft law is still pending in the Argentine Lower House Committees.

####Buy Argentine Preferences

_Goods_: Preference is given to domestic goods. The origin of the goods shall be determined by the nature/composition of the goods themselves, not based on the nationality or ownership of the manufacturing company. Goods containing imported parts shall be considered domestically produced when the value of the imported parts is no more than 40 percent of the sales value of the finished good, or when the imported product undergoes substantial in-country transformation such that the MERCOSUR tariff classification code of the transformed item differs from that of the imported part.

_Services_: Preference will be given to bids submitted by a domestic company or consultant.

_Public Works_: Preference will be given to domestic materials and to domestic services (i.e., project design, management, and construction services) as defined above.

####Preferential Treatment

In cash payment conditions, when the cost of the domestic good is five (for small firms) to seven percent higher than the cost of the imported/foreign good, the contracting party should select the domestic good. In the case of deregulated markets, the contracting party should select the domestic goods when the value quoted is equal to or lower than that of the imported/foreign goods. This requirement applies only when the domestic goods meet all the requirements set forth in contracting documents and can fulfill expected functions (_idénticas o similares prestaciones_).

####Foreign Goods

When a bidder offers to supply foreign goods not available in country, they must guarantee "nationalization" of the goods by depositing a bond on behalf of the contracting party. In addition, the Secretariat of Industry will issue a certificate verifying the value of the goods to be purchased abroad at the request of the contracting party within 96 hours of receiving said request. To obtain the Certificate of Verification (_Certificado De Verificación-CDV_), the contracting party must submit a sworn statement declaring (1) that it has complied with the _Compre Argentino_ regime; (2) the end price or value of the foreign goods; and (3) that said price or value is lower than that of domestic goods offered or that no domestic goods were offered.

####Disputes

When the selection of imported/foreign goods is challenged, the Secretariat of Industry will determine if the domestic goods offered meet all the requirements set forth in the contracting documents and can fulfill the expected functions (_idénticas o similares prestaciones_) in the same manner as the imported/foreign goods selected. The Secretariat may request the advice of the National Institute of Industrial Technology (_Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Industrial-INTI_) or any other body accredited by the Argentine Accreditation Organization (_Organismo Argentino de Acreditación -OAA_). If the challenge fails, the challenging party pays the costs of the Secretariat's intervention; if the challenge succeeds, the bidder offering the imported/foreign goods pays the costs.

Argentina is not a signatory of the WTO Agreement on Government Procurement, but it is an observer to the WTO Committee on Government Procurement.

Return to Top

###Distribution and Sales Channels
* Warehouse and Distribution
* Land Transportation
* River and Maritime Transportation
* Air Cargo
* The Retail Network

90 percent of the Argentine population is concentrated in urban areas, with over 40 percent living in Buenos Aires and its suburbs, and approximately another 30 percent in the cities of Cordoba, Rosario, and Mendoza combined.

Channel selection should be based on the nature of the product and the company's knowledge of the Argentine market. Generally, firms new to this market find it more effective to sell through a distributor. Large firms generally buy directly from overseas suppliers, while smaller firms prefer to buy through intermediaries. Industrial equipment is sold by sales agents or through trade fairs, while consumer goods are increasingly sold through large outlets such as supermarkets. Argentine distribution channels have gained increased efficiency through merging and streamlining as a result of the increased competition and changes in the consumer buying process.

####Warehouse and distribution

Distribution in Argentina tends to be radial, with all roads converging on the Port of Buenos Aires. This dates back to the turn of the century, when Argentina's rail and road systems were developed by the British to bring products to the Port of Buenos Aires to satisfy the foreign demand for commodities. The hub-oriented distribution approach used in the U.S. does not yet exist in Argentina.

####Land Transportation

Argentina stretches 4,000 km (2,500 mi.) from north to south, an expanse crossed by only a few major highways. Argentina's 208,350 km (129,462 mi.) road network carries 85 percent of domestic freight traffic. Argentina has over 35,000 km (21,000 mi.) of railroads, but quality and speed vary widely. In general, the rail network requires significant investment to bring it up to international standards of speed and reliability.

####River and Maritime Transportation

Almost 70 percent of Argentina’s foreign trade is carried by ship, and about 80 percent of the import/export transactions are carried out through the ports of Buenos Aires and La Plata. The waterways on the Parana and Uruguay rivers are well-dredged and maintained. These rivers link the port of Buenos Aires to internal Argentine ports, as well as to ports in Paraguay and Brazil.

####Air Cargo

[Terminal de Cargas Argentina (TCA)](http://www.tca.aero/) was created as a concessionary partnership established by the GOA for the operation of airfreight terminals at international airports. TCA provides full logistics and storage services to all foreign cargo agents. TCA's primary business is bonded warehouse management at major Argentine international airports, where the company stores imported and exported cargo while their consignees perform relevant formalities with the General Customs Administration or _[Dirección General de Aduanas (DGA)](http://www.afip.gov.ar/aduanaDefault.asp)_. TCA's headquarters are located at Ezeiza Airport (Argentina’s main international airport just outside of Buenos Aires). The company also has branches in Córdoba, Mendoza, Mar del Plata, and Jorge Newbery Domestic Airport, in Buenos Aires City. Air cargo imports have grown rapidly in the past years. International courier delivery services are extremely active and most global express delivery firms have significant operations in Argentina, including FedEx, DHL, and UPS.

####The Retail Network

There are two types of traditional sales channels in Argentina. One is through large-scale retailers with a defined but limited share of the market. The other is through the many specialized retailers that seek to protect their niches.

The food retail market is loosely separated into three categories: traditional "mom and pop" stores scattered throughout local neighborhoods, self-service mini-markets and drugstores, and the supermarkets and hypermarkets. Consumers prefer hypermarkets and supermarkets for lower prices on weekly and monthly purchases.

Return to Top

###Selling Factors/Techniques

The population and economic activity are highly concentrated in the Greater Buenos Aires area. The population is of largely European descent and continues to have strong ethnic, cultural, and business ties with Europe. In some respects, consumer preferences resemble those of Europeans more than those of other Latin American nationals.

The U.S. continues to be one of Argentina's top trading partners. Many U.S. firms have been very successful here and U.S. products have a strong reputation for quality and technological innovation. The U.S. lifestyle and consumption habits are increasingly influential.

As in many countries, personal relationships are fundamental when doing business in Argentina. Success requires taking the time to develop a close personal relationship with the representative, agent, or distributor. Marketing U.S. products and services in Argentina requires a higher level of research, preparation, and involvement.

Always use a professional translator, and if possible, have a native Argentine speaker, such as your agent or distributor, review any materials before using them in Argentina. Any official document to be presented before GOA authorities that is not in Spanish requires attachment of an official translation into Spanish by a Sworn Public Translator (_Traductor Público_), as well as certification by the Translators Association.

Price and financing terms have become increasingly important selling factors.

Some practical tips to successfully approach Argentine consumers are the following:

•	Appoint a representative or distributor

•	Have Spanish language capacity

•	Furnish materials in Spanish

•	Have a long-term outlook

•	Personalize your approach

•	Be consistent in attention to service and delivery

•	Provide credit terms

•	Dot your I's and cross your T's (i.e., consult as appropriate with lawyers and accountants)

•	Protect your trademarks

•	Engage in frequent visits and follow-ups

Return to Top

###Electronic Commerce

The number of people with Internet access continued to grow in 2012, although at a moderate 2 percent rate. Network expansion allows people to connect from multiple locations such as offices, cyber-cafes, phone booths, etc. Over 25 million people (over half the Argentine population) were Internet users in 2011. E-commerce activity has grown tenfold since 2000 in peso terms.

The Argentine Government plans to call public tenders to lay 13,500 km (8,388 mi.) of cable in 2013 as part of the country's federal fiber network project “_Argentina Conectada_”. This will add to the already-installed 8,000 km (4,971 mi.) of fiber. Once the national fiber platform is fully deployed, more than 1,400 cities and localities across Argentina will have connectivity. To date, the GOA has invested more than $484 million.

While sales via Internet have not traditionally reached the same levels as in other countries, a study conducted by Prince & Cook showed an increase of approximately 50 percent in 2011. Online purchases using credit cards represented 68.3 percent of total online transactions, up from 30 percent in 2009. This may be due to the boom experienced by discount coupon sales and a growing confidence in electronic payment sites. Online sales have also a high rate of acceptance in the interior of the country, where the variety of products available is more limited and delivery is an increasingly important sales tool.

Return to Top

###Trade Promotion and Advertising

Argentina has many advertising agencies and management consultants. The leading agencies are members of the Argentine Association of Advertising Agencies (_Asociación Argentina de Agencias de Publicidad_). Many branches or affiliates of major U.S. advertising agencies are among the leading agencies. Advertising in the print media is the most widely used method, although television, internet, and radio advertising are increasingly important.

**Major Daily Newspapers**

AMBITO FINANCIERO

Email: [redaccion@ambito.com](redaccion@ambito.com)

Advertising: [publicidad@ambito.com.ar](publicidad@ambito.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.ambitoweb.com/](http://www.ambitoweb.com/)

BUENOS AIRES ECONOMICO

Email: [lectores@baenegocios.com](lectores@baenegocios.com)

Website: [http://www.diariobae.com](http://www.diariobae.com)

BUENOS AIRES HERALD NEWS 
(English-language newspaper) 

Email: [info@buenosherald.com](info@buenosherald.com)

Advertising: [dv@buenosairesherald.com](dv@buenosairesherald.com) 

Website: [http://www.buenosairesherald.com/](http://www.buenosairesherald.com/)

CLARIN

Email: [clasificados@claringlobal.com.ar](clasificados@claringlobal.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.clarin.com.ar](http://www.clarin.com.ar)

CRONICA

Email: [editor@cronica.com.ar](editor@cronica.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.cronica.com.ar](http://www.cronica.com.ar)

EL CRONISTA

Email: [publicidad@cronista.com](publicidad@cronista.com)

Website: [http://www.cronista.com](http://www.cronista.com)

LA NACION

Email: [diario@lanacion.com.ar](diario@lanacion.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.lanacion.com.ar/](http://www.lanacion.com.ar/)

LA RAZON

Email: [lcantero@larazon.com.ar](lcantero@larazon.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.larazon.com.ar/](http://www.larazon.com.ar/)

PAGINA 12

Email: [publicidad@pagina12.com.ar](publicidad@pagina12.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.pagina12.com.ar/](http://www.pagina12.com.ar/)

TIEMPO ARGENTINO

Email: [http://tiempo.elargentino.com/contacto](http://tiempo.elargentino.com/contacto)

Website: [http://tiempo.elargentino.com/](http://tiempo.elargentino.com/)

**Business Magazines**

APERTURA

Email: [cartas@apertura.com](cartas@apertura.com)

Website: [http://www.apertura.com/](http://www.apertura.com/)

MERCADO

Email: [info@mercado.com.ar](info@mercado.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.mercado.com.ar](http://www.mercado.com.ar)

NEGOCIOS

Email: [negocios@atlantida.com.ar](negocios@atlantida.com.ar)

Website: [http://www.negocios.com.ar](http://www.negocios.com.ar)

Return to Top

###Pricing

U.S. exporters should take into account that locally manufactured products and those products imported from other MERCOSUR countries will have a price and duty advantage. Customized services and products can still charge price premiums demanded by the affluent population in certain geographical areas. Argentina has been traditionally characterized by high prices, high costs, and relatively low competitive pressures due to highly concentrated markets. Please refer to the “Trade Regulations and Standards” guide for more information on import tariffs.

Return to Top

###Sales Service/Customer Support

Customer service is a differentiating factor when selling a product. Argentine consumers are paying increased attention to home delivery and after-sales service.

Return to Top

###Protecting Your Intellectual Property

Several general principles are important for effective management of intellectual property (“IP”) rights in Argentina. First, it is important to have an overall strategy to protect your IP. Second, IP is protected differently in Argentina than in the U.S. Third, rights must be registered and enforced in Argentina, under local laws. Your U.S. trademark and patent registrations will not protect you in Argentina. There is no such thing as an “international copyright” that will automatically protect an author’s writings throughout the entire world. Protection against unauthorized use in a particular country depends on the national laws of that country. However, most countries do offer copyright protection to foreign works under certain conditions, and these conditions have been greatly simplified by international copyright treaties and conventions.

Registration of patents and trademarks is on a first-in-time, first-in-right basis, so you should consider applying for trademark and patent protection even before selling your products or services in Argentina. It is vital that companies understand that intellectual property is primarily a private right and that the U.S. government generally cannot enforce rights for private individuals in Argentina. It is the responsibility of the rights holders to register, protect, and enforce their rights where relevant, retaining their own counsel and advisors. Companies may wish to seek advice from local attorneys or IP consultants who are experts in Argentine law. The U.S. Commercial Service can provide a [list of local lawyers](http://argentina.usembassy.gov/legal.html) upon request.

While the U.S. Government stands ready to assist, there is little we can do if the rights holders have not taken these fundamental steps necessary to securing and enforcing their IP in a timely fashion. Moreover, in many countries, rights holders who delay enforcing their rights on a mistaken belief that the USG can provide a political resolution to a legal problem may find that their rights have been eroded or abrogated due to legal doctrines such as statutes of limitations, laches, estoppel, or unreasonable delay in prosecuting a law suit. In no instance should U.S. Government advice be seen as a substitute for the obligation of a rights holder to promptly pursue its case.

It is always advisable to conduct due diligence on potential partners. Negotiate from the position of your partner and give your partner clear incentives to honor the contract. A good partner is an important ally in protecting IP rights. Consider carefully, however, whether to permit your partner to register your IP rights on your behalf. Doing so may create a risk that your partner will list itself as the IP owner and fail to transfer the rights should the partnership end. Keep an eye on your cost structure and reduce the margins (and the incentive) of would-be bad actors. Projects and sales in Argentina require constant attention. Work with legal counsel familiar with Argentine laws to create a solid contract that includes non-compete clauses, and confidentiality/non-disclosure provisions.

It is also recommended that small and medium-size companies understand the importance of working together with trade associations and organizations to support efforts to protect IP and stop counterfeiting. There are a number of these organizations, both Argentine and U.S.-based. These include:

•	[The U.S. Chamber](http://www.uschamber.com/) and [local American Chamber of Commerce](http://www.amchamar.com.ar/index.html)

•	[National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)](http://www.nam.org/)

•	[International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA)](http://www.iipa.com/)

•	[International Trademark Association (INTA)](http://www.inta.org/)

•	[The Coalition Against Counterfeiting and Piracy (CACP)](http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/get-involved/cacp/)

•	[International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition (IACC)](http://www.iacc.org/)

•	[Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)](http://www.phrma.org/)

•	[Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)](http://www.bio.org/)

####IP Resources

A wealth of information on protecting IP is freely available to U.S. rights holders. Some excellent resources for companies regarding intellectual property include the following:

•	For information about patent, trademark, or copyright issues ― including enforcement issues in the US and other countries ― call the STOP! Hotline: **1-866-999-HALT** or register at [www.StopFakes.gov](www.StopFakes.gov).

•	For more information about registering trademarks and patents (both in the U.S. as well as in foreign countries), contact the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) at: **1-800-786-9199**.

•	For more information about registering for copyright protection in the US, contact the US Copyright Office at: **1-202-707-5959**.
 
•	For more information about how to evaluate, protect, and enforce intellectual property rights and how these rights may be important for businesses, a free online training program is available at [www.StopFakes.gov](www.StopFakes.gov).

•	For US small and medium-size companies, the Department of Commerce offers a "SME IP Advisory Program" available through the American Bar Association that provides one hour of free IP legal advice for companies with concerns in Brazil, China, Egypt, India, and Russia. For details and to register, visit: [http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/intlproj/iprprogram_consultation.html](http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/intlproj/iprprogram_consultation.html)

•	For information on obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights and market-specific IP Toolkits visit: [www.StopFakes.gov](www.StopFakes.gov) This site is linked to the USPTO website for registering trademarks and patents (both in the U.S. as well as in foreign countries), the U.S. Customs & Border Protection website to record registered trademarks and copyrighted works (to assist customs in blocking imports of IP-infringing products) and allows you to register for Webinars on protecting IP.

•	The U.S. Commerce Department has positioned IP attachés in key markets around the world. You can contact the IP attaché who covers Argentina at: [Albert.Keyack@trade.gov](Albert.Keyack@trade.gov).

###Due Diligence

Companies interested in Argentina should always conduct due diligence before entering into business ventures or other commercial arrangements. The U.S. Commercial Service in Argentina provides U.S. firms with information that can assist companies in [due diligence](http://export.gov/argentina/servicesforu.s.companies/eg_ar_021794.asp) efforts on a specific Argentine company to help determine its suitability as a potential business partner. We can investigate the capabilities, legitimacy, and financial strength of an Argentine company and provide useful information gleaned from government, industry and financial contacts, the local press and other sources. In addition, the U.S. Commercial Service in Argentina includes site visits and interviews with key personnel of Argentine firms with whom U.S. firms are considering or maintain a business relationship through its International Company Profile service. Our assistance does not rise to the level of due diligence in a legal sense, but does provide valuable information to that end. Please contact [Josette.Fiore@trade.gov](Josette.Fiore@trade.gov) for more information.

Return to Top

###Local Professional Services

U.S. consulting firms with local subsidiaries, as well as major local players, provide a wide scope of business solutions that include IT consulting, tax work, and M&A due-diligence, and market research. The U.S. Commercial Service prepares Industry Sector market research reports on an ongoing basis.
 
[Customized Market Research (CMR)](http://export.gov/argentina/servicesforu.s.companies/eg_ar_021994.asp) is also available for companies that wish to have specific questions answered such as: the overall marketability of a product or service; market trends and size, customary distribution and promotion practices; market entry requirements; regulations; product standards and registration; key competitors, and potential agents, distributors, or strategic partners.

Return to Top

###Web Resources

For additional information and useful links please visit the following web sites:

•	Directorate General of Copyright, Argentina (_Spanish_): [http://www.jus.gov.ar/derecho-de-autor.aspx](http://www.jus.gov.ar/derecho-de-autor.aspx)

•	National Institute of Industrial Property, Argentina (_Spanish_): [http://www.inpi.gov.ar](http://www.inpi.gov.ar)

•	U.S. Commercial Service – Argentina: [http://www.export.gov/argentina/](http://www.export.gov/argentina/)

•	The American Chamber of Commerce in Argentina (_Spanish_): [http://www.amchamar.com.ar/](http://www.amchamar.com.ar/)

•	Argentine Importers and Exporters Association (_Asociación de Importadores y Exportadores_) (_Spanish_): [http://www.aiera.org/](http://www.aiera.org/)

•	Argentine Importers Association (_Cámara de Importadores de la República Argentina_) (_Spanish_): [http://www.cira.org.ar/](http://www.cira.org.ar/)

•	Argentine Chamber of Commerce (_Cámara Argentina de Comercio_) (_Spanish_): [http://www.cac.com.ar/](http://www.cac.com.ar/)

•	U.S. Chamber of Commerce: [http://www.uschamber.com/](http://www.uschamber.com/)

Return to Top

Return to table of contents

