--- 
permalink: 'chap3.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap3">Chapter 3: Selling U.S. Products and Services</h1>

* Using an Agent or Distributor
* Establishing an Office
* Franchising
* Direct Marketing
* Joint Ventures/Licensing
* Selling to the Government
* Distribution and Sales Channels
* Selling Factors/Techniques
* Electronic Commerce
* Trade Promotion and Advertising
* Pricing
* Sales Service/Customer Support
* Protecting Your Intellectual Property
* Due Diligence
* Local Professional Services
* Web Resources

###Using an Agent or Distributor

Return to top

China's fast-growing economy attracts international participation, including exports from U.S. small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Unlike large international or multinational companies that establish operations for branding, marketing and various business activities in China, SMEs with limited budgets, when expanding their business, usually start with fostering a sales network through regional agents or distributors. Sales agents and distributors, however, can assist in keeping track of policy and regulation updates, both locally and nationally, collect market data, and quickly respond to changes. In addition, U.S. SMEs can take advantage of existing networks enjoyed by their agents and distributors and expand their business through such contacts.

####Trading Companies

China's current regulations are designed to allow manufacturing-focused foreign invested enterprises (FIEs) to become export trading companies that may purchase and export any products or technologies free from quotas, license controls or government monopoly. FIEs are able to establish trading companies and to obtain trading rights before the phase-in of distribution rights. Chinese companies that are registered and have RMB 1 million (US$148,000) in capitalization can obtain an import/export license.

In 2005, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) issued documents outlining the application procedures for investors to establish new foreign-invested commercial enterprises (FICEs), for existing FICEs to open new distribution and trading businesses, and for existing FIEs to expand their business scope. The documents give provincial-level agencies the authority to review and approve applications. Approval for new foreign enterprises occurs at the provincial level, and not the national level.

In 2006, MOFCOM issued a notice on "Entrusting Local Authorities with the Examination and Approval of Commercial Enterprises with Foreign Investment." While this decision to delegate approval authority to provincial-level authorities for most distribution rights has sped up the application process, technical challenges still remain. Existing foreign-invested manufacturers that have expanded their business scope are limited to distributing goods that they produce. Uncertainty over what constitutes "similar goods" has created difficulties for some companies seeking to exercise their distribution rights. In addition, existing manufacturers that have expanded their business scope to include distribution must ensure that half of their revenue stems from their buy-sell activity.

####Distributors

A U.S. exporting company that hopes to successfully enter China must gain both trading and distribution rights. Distribution covers: 1) commission agent services, 2) wholesale services, and 3) retailing. Chinese law allows foreign companies to establish wholly-owned distribution entities for chemical fertilizers, processed oil and crude oil, as well as other imported and domestically produced products. Limits exist on products including books and periodicals, pharmaceutical products and pesticides. Foreign companies may choose one of two ways to acquire trading and distribution rights: they can set up a new, stand-alone FICE or apply to expand the business scope of an existing FIE.

Given the complexities of the Chinese market, foreign companies should also consider using a domestic Chinese agent for both importing into China and marketing within China. With careful selection, training, and constant contact, a U.S. exporter can obtain good market representation from a Chinese trading company, many of which are authorized to deal in a wide range of products. Some of the larger companies have offices in the U.S. and other countries around the world, as well as a network of offices and affiliates in China.

####Local Agents

China has many local sales agents who handle internal distribution and marketing. Most of these firms do not have import/export authorization. They are the next layer down the distribution chain, buying foreign products and importing them through import/export licensees. These sales agents then pay a commission to the licensee. They may be representative offices of Hong Kong-based or other foreign trading companies, or domestic Chinese firms with regional or partial national networks.

###Establishing an Office

Return to top

####How to Establish a Representative Office in China

Note: Regulations in China change frequently. While the information below is current at the time of publication, we highly recommend that companies engage competent professional service providers to assist in this process. Second, in the last few years many companies have opted for a wholly foreign owned consulting or service enterprise rather than a representative office, as this offers more flexibility and allows invoicing and collection of RMB payments.

A Representative Office (RO) must consist of no more than 4 representatives (including Chief Representative) and they may not be engaged in any profit-making activities. RO's can only engage in market research and investigation, promotional activities of products and services, liaison for the purposes of selling products or services, domestic procurement or domestic investment. The parent company must actually sign sales contracts.

####Representative Office Establishment Application Process

Applications for most industry representative offices can be applied for directly at the Administration of Industry and Commerce (AIC) in the locality where the proposed representative office is to be established. If a company's industry is designated "special," the AIC office will direct the firm to MOFCOM, and the company will register with MOFCOM instead of AIC. All Foreign Representatives must register with a RO within 6 months of entry. Those who have not obtained approval or have not gone through the procedures for registration shall not be permitted to undertake business operations for the home office.

The applicant or agent must submit the following documentation on behalf of the investor:

* Application letter signed by the Chairman of the Board or the General Manager. The application letter should contain, in part, the following: a description of the company's history, business and scope; the names of the Chairman of the Board, the General Manager and directors; the names of its major trading partners in China; its business volume; the proposed name of the representative office; the purpose for setting up the representative office and the scope of its activities; the duration of the office and its chief representative.
* Head office incorporation documents and a brief description of company. Head office incorporation documents include certified copies of the company's business registration certificate, the certificate of incorporation, the memoranda and articles of association, etc.
* Original bank reference letter attesting to the company's financial standing.	
* Letter from U.S. state of incorporation's Department of State, notarized by Chinese embassy/consulate, affirming that the foreign enterprise is a company in good standing.
* A letter appointing the chief representative to the representative office as well as the chief representative's resume showing his/her work experience and educational/professional qualifications, copies of his/her identification, passport and photos.
* A copy of the lease agreement for the representative office's premises from an approved unit (e.g., a hotel or commercial building, etc.).
* If the application is approved, an approval permit is normally issued to the representative office within one month after submission of the application. Having obtained the approval permit and business registration certificate from MOFCOM or the Administration for Industry and Commerce, other post registration formalities include: registering with the tax bureau, opening a bank account, completing a residence application with the with the local Public Security Bureau, applying to the Customs Administration for permission to import office equipment and daily necessities for use by the representative office and its personnel, appointing a Foreign Enterprise Employment Agent to recruit local Chinese employees, etc.

The registration of a representative office is required in order to lawfully employ Chinese nationals, to open a bank account or to use business cards that identify the company's presence in China. Additionally, the company's representative would be unable to obtain a multiple entry visa or legally rent an apartment without a commercial domicile registration booklet. This booklet is obtainable only after the registration of the representative office is complete. The employment of Chinese nationals as employees is normally facilitated with the assistance of a local foreign enterprise employment agent. These agencies handle the process of establishing the proper protocol for employing and paying local employees.

No one may be a Representative of a RO if:

* Sentenced to a criminal penalty for committing crimes detrimental to national security or public welfare of the People's Republic of China.
* If formerly the individual was deregistered, or whose registration was withdrawn or that was ordered closed by relevant authorities due to illegal activities that were detrimental to the national security or public welfare of the PRC in the last 5 years.

####Renewal

Representative offices must submit annual reports to SAIC or AIC between March 1st and June 30th of each year with all proper documentation required.

###Franchising	

Return to top

Some foreign companies are beginning to establish multiple retail outlets under a variety of creative arrangements, some of which function as franchises. Virtually all of the foreign companies who franchise in China either manage the operations themselves with Chinese partners (typically establishing a different partner in each major city or region) or sell to a master franchisee, which then leases out and oversees several franchise areas within a territory.

The 2011 revision of the "Catalogue Guiding Foreign Investment" removes companies involved in franchising from the 'restricted' category. As such investment is no longer listed elsewhere in the catalogue, this activity is considered 'permitted', meaning it has less stringent approval and partnership requirements. This movement, along with doctrine in the 12th Five-Year Plan (12th 5YP) to encourage more domestic consumption, should be considered when evaluating this business structure. Chinese consumers tend to be very brand conscious. Many urban consumers have traveled overseas and perceive value in branded products or services with foreign names.

It is important for entities considering a franchise model for expansion to consider steps to protect their brand and image. Prior to making substantive moves into the market, including negotiations with potential partners or franchisees, companies should consult with appropriate counsel regarding trademark registration or other concerns regarding intellectual property rights. Also, companies should evaluate after sale service and other considerations that may affect their brand image.

The regulations affecting franchisors and their operations are the "Regulations on the Administration of Commercial Franchises" (Franchise Regulations). The Franchise Regulations, together with the "Administrative Measures for the Information Disclosure of Commercial Franchises" (Information Disclosure Measures) and the "Administrative Measures for Archival Filing of Commercial Franchises" (Archival Filing Measures) have been issued by MOFCOM.

One key aspect to China's regulations governing franchising is the two-plus-one requirement. This requirement stipulates that franchisors own at least two directly operated outlets anywhere in the world before being allowed to operate a franchise model in China. One of the most difficult aspects of franchising in China is finding qualified franchisees. Franchising is still a relatively new concept in China, with many Chinese still unfamiliar with it. Moreover, collecting royalty payments and ensuring that the franchisee maintains the integrity of your brand are formidable challenges. Industry experts recommend that companies first open their own stores in China to show the market that the business concept works and to solidify its brand positioning before attempting a franchise model. Another suggested approach is to find a franchise partner for Mainland China in a more developed area such as Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore.

###Direct Marketing	

Return to top

Direct selling is a type of business model involving the recruitment of direct marketing sales agents or promoters and the selling of products to end-consumers outside fixed business locations or outlets.

As part of China's WTO commitment, the Chinese Government agreed to allow market access for "wholesale or retail trade services away from a fixed location." These new regulations are quite restrictive, however. Multi-level marketing (MLM) organizations are characterized as illegal pyramids, compensation is capped at 30 percent based on personal sales, and language exists that requires the construction of fixed location "service centers" in each area where sales occur. To obtain a direct sales license from the government, further barriers exist as evidenced by a three-year foreign experience rule, and a required RMB 20-100 million bond deposit, among other requirements. Several major international companies have had success in overcoming these barriers. Having said this, the Chinese Government is slow to approve direct-sales license applications for new entrants over the past few years. In general, the Chinese central government and the relevant authorities at central and local levels tend to heavily regulate and supervise this industry.

###Joint Ventures / Licensing	

Return to top

Joint ventures, although a useful way to limit investment and quickly access the market, entail some degree of risk (loss of control of investment, theft of intellectual property, conflicts of interest, etc.). Most U.S. investment in China is now in the form of 100 percent U.S.-owned companies, rather than joint ventures. As China has opened its market, the number of wholly owned foreign entities (WOFE's) has increased. To date nearly 75 percent of new investments are WOFE's. A U.S. company contemplating a JV should clearly understand what their partner brings to the table and what benefits there might be to establishing a JV rather than a WOFE.

Technology transfer is another initial market entry approach used by many companies. It offers short-term profits but runs the risk of creating long-term competitors. Due to this concern, as well as intellectual property considerations and the lower technical level prevailing in the Chinese market, some firms attempt to license older technology, promising higher-level access at some future date or in the context of a future joint venture arrangement.

Licensing contracts must be approved by and registered with the Ministry of Commerce. A tax of 10 percent to 20 percent (depending on the technology involved and the existing applicable bilateral tax treaty) is withheld on royalty payments.

###Selling to the Government  

Return to top

In 2003, China implemented the Government Procurement Law (GPL) which generally reflects the United Nations Model Law on Procurement of Goods and the WTO's Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA). China's government procurement (GP) market was about $130 billion in 2010, according to China's Ministry of Finance (MOF), an increase of roughly 19 percent over 2009 figures. However, that number does not include most government-funded construction projects or public works, which are governed by the Tendering and Bidding Law (TBL) administered by the National Development and Reform Commission. While there are no official figures for projects covered by TBL, analysts estimate such procurement may exceed $200 billion.

In accordance with its commitment upon accession to the WTO, China committed to initiate negotiations for accession to GPA. The initial offer was submitted in 2007, a first revised offer was made in 2010, and a second revised offer was made in 2011. The U.S. and other GPA parties have noted that significant improvements will be needed in China's next offer. In particular, while the second offer covered a limited number of sub-central entities (provinces and municipalities), GPA parties such as the U.S. would prefer State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) that provide government functions be included as well.

The United States and China have restated their cooperation in order to accelerate China's accession to the WTO GPA. Moreover, in the 2010 Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT), China committed, for the purposes of government procurement, to treat products produced in China by foreign-invested enterprises (FIEs) the same as products produced in China by Chinese enterprises. Late in 2011, the Ministry of Finance announced that 30 percent of GP would be directed toward SMEs to strengthen that sector of the economy.

A "Buy-China" clause in China's government procurement law requires an additional approval process for imported goods or services. At the end of 2009, China issued a document implementing regulations for the GPL, proposing a domestic content requirement standard for government procurement as well as preferences for products with indigenous innovation (II). These II preferences have been eliminated as of July 2011, when the Ministry of Finance (MOF) issued regulations preventing the enforcement of these preferences. The United States Government continues to press for stronger measures to eliminate II preferences given to products deemed indigenously innovated, and as of December 1, 2011 sub-central governments were ordered to discontinue any II preferences through the State Council Office Circular [2011] Number 41. There are also additional opportunities for sales of products that are not available in China, cannot be purchased on reasonable commercial terms in China or are for use abroad.

China's evolving GP market is adopting new approaches to the procurement process. For example, electrical equipment bids are now accepted over the internet via Chinabidding.com. This portal provides a comprehensive listing of government procurement opportunities for this type of equipment all centralized in one location. The service is also available in English and requires registration in order to submit bids. Additional portals for other product categories may exist or be in development.

Direct sales to the Chinese military are also possible. However, restrictions on this type of business exist both in the United States and China. U.S. manufacturers should contact the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security (202-482-4811) and the U.S. State Department Office of Defense Trade Controls (202-663-2980) for guidance before selling goods or technology to the Chinese military.

###Distribution and Sales Channels	

Return to top

In recent years, China liberalized its distribution system to provide full trading and distribution rights for foreign firms in most industry sectors, yet exceptions remain in place for the distribution of books, film and audio recordings. New laws removed earlier restrictions on size requirements for trading and distribution firms, thus paving the way for competition from small businesses.

While the outright prohibition of foreign invested firms to import, export and distribute goods in China has improved, the licensing and approval process remains difficult, time consuming and highly opaque. A standard business license is typically issued by municipal commercial agencies, in China referred to as the Administration of Industry and Commerce. Distribution rights for such industries are often approved by a higher-level authority, a municipal or provincial Commission of Commerce. This effectively adds another layer of bureaucratic hurdles a foreign investor will need to navigate.

There are different sales channels available to foreign companies selling in China, including trading companies, distributors, and local agents. Trading companies with import/export rights take care of customs formalities; distributors build sales channels and handle stock and inventory; and local agents retail products to consumers.

###Selling Factors / Techniques	

Return to top

####Relationships

Personal relationships (_guanxi_ in Chinese) in business are critical. _Guanxi_ is deeply rooted in Chinese culture and a necessary tool for getting things done. In any business transaction, your counterpart will want to know with whom they are dealing before getting in too deeply. It can sometimes take many months to develop these types of relationships. American businesses need to understand this aspect of the business culture and take a patient approach.

Thus, it is important for exporters, importers, and investors to establish and maintain close relationships with their Chinese counterparts and relevant government agencies. It is equally important that American exporters encourage strong personal relationships between their Chinese agents or distributors and the buyers and end-users. A web of strong personal relationships can often help ensure expedited governmental procedures and smoother business development in China.

####Localization

Though Chinese customers welcome U.S.-made products in general, they still prefer to have localized customer support from a manufacturer, such as on-site training, service centers in China, local representatives, and catalogues and manuals in Chinese. While a rapidly growing percentage of the management work-force in first-tier cities speak English, U.S. exporters should understand the limits of English language proficiency in China and do their utmost to see that all materials are 'user friendly', in other words, in good Chinese. On a similar note, certain modifications must be made to accommodate local tastes, customs and systems.

####Logistics

U.S. exporters should keep in mind that timely delivery and adequate inventory are crucial to success in the Chinese market. Thus, it is important to consider the capabilities of an agent or distributor. Logistics in China have become easier in recent years with the continuous improvement of highway, air, rail and port infrastructure, and transportation options have increased. Most of the major international logistic companies are now operating in China, although the Chinese Government still imposes some restrictive policies when it comes to providing domestic services.

###Electronic Commerce	

Return to top

The Chinese Government has a fairly open attitude towards e-commerce in China. Both Chinese and international businesses are actively investing and establishing online sales channels. According to the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), the number of internet shoppers in China hit 145 million in 2011, ranking second in the world after the United States. The group also predicts that China will become the world's largest e-commerce market in 2015 with the number of internet shoppers hitting 329 million.

Just about everything is being purchased online. Examples include household goods, apparel, books, electronics, food items and luxury goods. China Internet Network Information Center (CINIC) estimates have total online sales in China exceeding RMB 523 billion for 2010, up 109 percent from 2009. Online sales now account for almost 3.3 percent of China's total retail sales.

While e-commerce in China has great potential, some major impediments exist. China remains a cash-based society, and the use of credit cards is limited. Local distribution channels are not well developed for delivery of items purchased over the internet. Online retailers have a reputation for poor after-sales service versus traditional retail stores. Consumers still have less confidence with the internet environment and limited awareness of the need for appropriate internet security software products.

Despite these impediments, several Chinese internet companies have been very successful in adapting to the local market and developing an effective cash-on-delivery or bank transfer payment model. Players such as [tmall.com](tmall.com) (part of [taobao.com](taobao.com) which is China's largest online retailer), [amazon.cn](amazon.cn), [dangdang.com](dangdang.com), and [360buy.com](360buy.com) are key online retailers. In fact, it is becoming common for Chinese consumers to shop online at one of these websites, and well-known Western brands are continuing to flock to these websites. However, U.S. companies wanting to sell products on Chinese e-commerce portals must establish a firm presence in China. A "presence" can be a subsidiary company, a JV, a wholly-owned entity or even a local distributor/agent. Few Chinese e-commerce portals are able or willing to deal with custom clearance and after-sales management for importing products. Chinese portals rely heavily on foreign companies to handle these issues themselves. Of course, this may change at some point in the years to come as Chinese portals expand domestically and globally and logistics companies work more closely with these portals.

###Trade Promotion and Advertising	

Return to top

####Advertising

Advertising is an effective way to create product awareness among potential consumers in China. Channels for mass advertising include publications, radio, television, outdoor, online (blogs, bulletin boards, search engines), in-store and sponsorship. Advertising in China is regulated by the "Advertising Law of the People's Republic of China" (Advertising Law), which was passed in 1994. This law outlines content prohibitions and advertisers' responsibilities. Advertising should "be good for the physical and mental health of the people" as well as "conform to social, public and professional ethics and safeguard the dignity and interests of the state." Specific rules include a prohibition on the use of national symbols and government ../images, and prohibit advertisements that are obscene, superstitious, discriminatory and/or dangerous to social stability. The advertising industry in China is heavily regulated, and the government still exercises ultimate control over content. The Advertising Law is not completely transparent; therefore, interpretation and enforcement may be arbitrary and varied, and legislation usually favors consumer protection over business promotion. Notably, foreign businesses without a Chinese business license gained through establishing an office in China are not permitted to advertise in China.

The State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) is the primary regulatory organization for the advertising sector, but many other organizations such as the Ministry of Culture and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, play an active role in controlling print or television content.

China's retail boom and increasing competition among retailers is causing China's advertising industry to grow even faster than the economy as a whole. All of the major international advertising firms are present in China. According to the China Investment Consulting website, overall advertising revenues were $33.6 billion (142.48 RMB) in 2010. The 2011 estimated advertising revenues hit $38.3 billion. While television advertising remains the largest percentage of total expenditures, internet advertising is expected to outpace newspaper advertising by 2012.

Now that China is in the midst of a consumer revolution, foreign products that make use of advanced marketing, advertising and research techniques are leading the way. Brand awareness is increasingly important and sophisticated advertising is beginning to play a key role in charming the Chinese consumer.

####Trade Shows and Missions

In 2010, approximately 5,040 trade events were held in 76 cities in China. The total number of shows, many held in smaller cities, continues to grow between 15 to 20 percent annually. Of the 5,040 shows, 837 were held in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. In general, exhibitions can be excellent venues to gauge market interest, develop leads and make sales. Most are sponsored or co-sponsored by government agencies, professional societies, or the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT). Some shows are organized by American, Hong Kong or other foreign show organizers. Show participation costs are sometimes high since pricing options for available booth space for foreign companies at shows is often limited to certain areas within events. Some shows may reach only a local audience or cater primarily to Chinese exporters despite being described as Import/Export Fairs. Therefore, companies are advised to scrutinize shows carefully before confirming participation.

In 2012, CS in China will support U.S. Pavilions at trade shows around China in different industry sectors. The U.S. Pavilion concept is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce's initiative to promote American goods and services in key Chinese markets.

Updated information about these shows can be found on our website at: [http://www.buyusa.gov/china/entrade_events.html](http://www.buyusa.gov/china/entrade_events.html). In addition, a list of trade shows that are screened by the U.S. Department of Commerce appears in Chapter 9 of this report. Upcoming Department of Commerce trade missions can be found at: [http://www.trade.gov/trade-missions](http://www.trade.gov/trade-missions).

###Pricing	

Return to top

Most Chinese consumers are highly sensitive to price. The 9.1 percent annual inflation on food items in 2011 demonstrates this steep rise in prices. Industrial and government procurement purchasing decisions are also often focused primarily around price points and less around product and service quality. With carefully packaged service programs, however, Chinese industrial buyers can be convinced to pay a premium for higher quality products. Attractive export/import financing programs can also be an important tool for exporters, and Japanese and European equipment manufacturers often use them. Refer to Chapter 7 for additional information on export financing assistance opportunities for U.S. companies.

Chinese consumers do, however, regularly demonstrate a keen desire to pay a significantly higher price for products that provide a sense of prestige and sophistication. In 2011, China became the third largest market for global luxury brands, accounting for almost 25 percent of global sales of consumer luxury products. Simply carrying an imported label can often, though not always, be enough to put products into a premier price category. A recent store check by the Commercial Service's Shanghai office found imported U.S. children's vitamins priced at $55 for a 100-tablet bottle, with the same product selling for $12 in the United States. While a significant portion of such price differences is attributable to import duties and value-added tax, perceived higher quality and greater prestige of imported products has allowed importers to build in large profit margins. Refer to chapter 5 for more information on duties and taxes.

###Sales Service / Customer Support	

Return to top

The ability to provide adequate after-sales service is an important selling point and can distinguish a company from its competitors. Wholly owned service companies and foreign invested enterprises are now able to provide sales service and after-sales customer support in China. Heightened consumer awareness has given U.S. companies with strong international brands an advantage in the Chinese market, as American products and services are generally considered to have superior sales and customer support standards. This, of course, requires a certain degree of localization, and a commitment to training the local sales and service force.

###Protecting Your Intellectual Property	

Return to top

As China liberalizes its trade regime and continues to further open its markets under its World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, new products and industries are increasingly present. Additionally, an increasingly large number of Chinese individuals and small companies are involved in manufacturing and international trade. China's internet penetration has been rapid, with many companies scouring the internet for market opportunities. While this has many positive effects for the Chinese economy, one ancillary effect of the growing trade and market liberalization has been the simultaneous growth in infringement of intellectual property rights (IPR), including the export of products that violate U.S. rights in the United States and other overseas markets. U.S. companies, whether or not they are active in China, can no longer afford to decline or defer taking steps to protect their IP rights in China.

Intellectual property rights are territorial. U.S. companies must secure relevant rights in China in a timely fashion in order to be protected under Chinese law. Separately, U.S. rights holders may need to obtain different types of rights, and seek different types of remedies under China's legal regime, compared to the United States.

####China’s IPR Commitments

As part of its Protocol on Accession to the WTO, China committed to full compliance with the WTO's Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (the "TRIPs Agreement" or "TRIPs"), as well as other TRIPs-related commitments. Although some progress has been made, the Chinese Government has yet to implement effective enforcement measures to deter widespread infringement of intellectual property rights. Currently, some of these laws are being revised or under consideration for amendment. In late 2008, China announced a new National IPR Strategy. In October 2010, Premier Wen Jiabao and the State Council (China's cabinet) announced a new "Special IPR Campaign" of enhanced enforcement of intellectual property rights. In November 2011, during a bilateral meeting of the Sino-U.S. Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT), Vice Premier Wang Qishan announced that China will establish a permanent office to continue the Special Campaign's enforcement efforts. Rights holders should ensure that the steps they take are based on the most recent legal developments.

Apart from China's WTO commitments, China has signed a number of international and bilateral agreements regarding IPR. China is a member of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Convention, the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, the Madrid System for the International Registration of Marks, otherwise known as the "Madrid Protocol," the Universal Copyright Convention, the Geneva Phonograms Convention, and the Patent Cooperation Treaty.

During 2002, the WIPO Copyright Treaty and WIPO Performance and Phonograms Treaty (the "Internet Treaties") came into effect worldwide. The treaties help define global standards needed to keep pace with distribution of copyright over global networks. In March 2007, China acceded to the two WIPO Internet Treaties. As of June 30, 2010, the China Internet Network Information Center (CNNIC) reported an estimated 420 million internet users. [http://www.cnnic.cn/en/index/0O/index.htm](http://www.cnnic.cn/en/index/0O/index.htm). It is critical that the Chinese Government aggressively enforce against copyright infringement occurring over the internet. Enforcement against various types of cybercrimes, such as internet piracy and sales of counterfeit and pirated goods over the internet, however, tends to be weak.

The two countries have cooperative programs concerning technology and criminal justice, and continue to discuss IPR issues on a bilateral as well as multilateral basis. From 2007 until recently, though, U.S. and Chinese interests diverged significantly over China's continued unsatisfactory record of enforcing and protecting IPR. On April 9, 2007, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) filed two cases against China before the WTO, alleging: (1) weaknesses in China's legal regime for protection and enforcement of copyrights and trademarks; and (2) market-access restrictions in China on products of copyright-intensive industries. The Chinese Government reacted strongly to the U.S. action, severely curtailing IPR cooperation outside of Geneva, taking IPR discussions out of the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT) dialogue, and cancelling many cooperative IPR programs, at considerable cost to the United States.

In January 2009, the WTO found China in violation of the U.S. copyright claim, and in partial violation of the trademark claim. On the copyright issue, the panel concluded that China did not provide full protection for foreign owners as it did for domestic rights holders. This disparate treatment violated the TRIPs Agreement which requires members to have laws that prevent and deter infringement for all rights holders.

The trademark claim concerned the practice of China Customs' removing the trademark from counterfeit goods, such as handbags and apparel, then opting for one of the following disposal actions, none of which was acceptable to rights holders: (1) donating the goods to charities; (2) re-selling the goods with the profits given to charities; or (3) simply releasing the goods back to the vendor. The WTO held China in partial violation of TRIPs Agreement, in that simple removal of an unlawfully affixed trademark is insufficient to allow release of the goods back into the commercial stream. However, the panel did not find China to have violated its authority of disposing infringing goods as it deemed appropriate.

On a third claim concerning whether China had sufficient enforcement measures to deter infringement, the WTO did not issue a decision, stating that it lacked enough evidence to determine whether China had criminal procedures and penalties in place to address trademark infringement and copyright piracy on a commercial scale.

####IPR Climate

For 2012, industry associations representing copyright and consumer-goods industries report high levels of piracy and counterfeiting of all types of copyrighted products. Additionally, U.S. copyright entities report difficulty in entering the Chinese market due to barriers on creative content, which may violate some of China's WTO commitments. 
[http://www.iipa.com/rbc/2012/2012SPEC301CHINA.PDF](http://www.cnnic.cn/en/index/0O/index.htm).

In fiscal year 2011, United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement/Homeland Security Investigations (ICE/HSI) conducted 24,792 IPR seizures with a domestic value of $178.9 million. Counterfeit footwear from China accounted for 62 percent of the seizures coming into the United States by value. 
[http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/newsroom/news_releases/national/01092012.xml](http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/newsroom/news_releases/national/01092012.xml).

Many consumer-goods companies report that, on average, 20% of their products in the Chinese market are counterfeit. Chinese companies experience similar, or even greater, problems with piracy and counterfeiting in their home markets. Compounding these problems are widespread squatting of others' trademarks, company names, domain names, and design patents, employee theft of trade secrets, and smuggled exports of infringing products. Chinese-origin infringing goods can be found throughout the world.

China has administrative and criminal enforcement mechanisms at its disposal to combat IPR infringement and theft. Inadequate enforcement of IPR laws and regulations, however, remains a serious problem. Enforcement is uneven and inconsistent, with local interests hindering prosecution. Administrative penalties for IPR violations, in the form of fines and seizures, have little deterrent effect because they lack the severity of criminal penalties, such as imprisonment. Fines often are amortized into the cost of manufacturing the counterfeit or pirated product. Consequently, for the infringer, payment of a fine is merely the cost of doing business. Chinese law insufficiently criminalizes the import and export of IPR-infringing goods. It also does not deem unauthorized downloading of copyrighted materials as a violation, unless the rights holder can demonstrate that the infringer was motivated by profit.

Limited market access for products such as foreign movies and entertainment software, as well as restrictions in investment in distribution channels, provide additional incentives for smugglers and counterfeiters. Authorities have conducted tens of thousands of raids at both the manufacturing and the retail level, confiscating scores of counterfeit or smuggled products. Nonetheless, large open markets continue to sell pirated and counterfeit products despite repeated U.S. Government requests to shut down these venues and prosecute the offending merchants. These markets are located prominently in major Chinese cities or at border crossings, such as the Silk Street Market in Beijing or the Lo Wu Commercial Center at the border between Shenzhen and Hong Kong.

####IPR Enforcement Strategies

Any U.S. company or individual anticipating or encountering problems arising from IPR infringement in China should consider an appropriate strategy to minimize the risks and actual losses. Assistance can be found in the "IPR Toolkit," hosted at the web site of the U.S. Embassy in Beijing: [http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/ipr.html](http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/ipr.html). Combating IPR violations in China is a long-term, multi-faceted undertaking that is linked to rule-of-law developments in Chinese society. Different industries have pursued separate strategies, based on a variety of factors: the pervasive nature of the IPR violation; the sophistication of the counterfeiter; difficulties in delivering legitimate product through proper channels; the type of intellectual property being infringed; the effect of the violation on public health, safety, or business interests; the familiarity of Chinese administrative or judicial organs with the type of violation; and budget and marketing constraints. The United States looks forward to the day when China engages in fair, robust, and deterrent IPR enforcement for all rights holders. That is a goal towards which China still is working. In certain circumstances, however, American companies may be able to obtain some relief for export-oriented infringement activities through litigation or engaging Customs enforcement outside of China.

In 1998, foreign multi-national companies in China formed a coalition, the Quality Brands Protection Committee (QBPC), to focus attention on trademark counterfeiting, and to propose solutions for strengthening enforcement. Chinese agencies acknowledge QBPC as an organization authorized to protect Chinese as well as foreign products; it has been recognized internationally for its enforcement efforts. QBPC offers technical support for trademark enforcement in China, as well as other areas involving IPR protection. Several other organizations involved with intellectual property matters also have a presence in China, subject to certain limitations that the Chinese Government imposes. These include the Research and Development Pharmaceutical Association of China, the Business Software Alliance, the Motion Picture Association, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industries, and the International Trademark Association. Some U.S. trade associations representing specific industries also have offices in China and focus considerably on IPR issues, such as the Semiconductor Industry Association. Other broad industry organizations in China, such as the U.S. Information Technology Office, the American Chamber of Commerce (with branches in major Chinese cities), and the U.S.-China Business Council have been active in IPR issues as well.

Chinese authorities are addressing the need for increased education on IPR matters through establishment of IPR law centers at many universities, notably People's University, Peking University, Tsinghua University, the Chinese University of Politics and Law, Fudan University, Jinan University, and South China University of Technology, among others. Chinese IPR professionals also are studying in foreign countries, frequently with the assistance of international organizations. In the past several years, the United States and other foreign governments, as well as private organizations, have conducted numerous national and local training initiatives, focusing on China's WTO obligations, including its civil, criminal, administrative, and Customs enforcement. We look forward to continued engagement which will help improve China's IPR regime.

#### IPR Enforcement Systems

Administrative enforcement measures usually are the first avenue of recourse in addressing infringement. A disadvantage to administrative action is that it is only a local remedy, lacking nationwide efficacy. The decision-making process often lacks transparency, with local protectionism a significant impediment to effective enforcement action. These administrative agencies also require assistance from law-enforcement authorities to conduct raids, necessitating cooperation and coordination that can be lacking among disparate Chinese departments.

Chinese Government agencies most often involved in administrative enforcement actions include the following: the State Administration for Industry and Commerce; the General Administration of Customs; the National Copyright Administration; the National Anti-Pornography and Anti-Piracy Office; and the Administration for Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine. China Customs frequently is involved with administrative actions concerning trademarks. If the rights holder has registered its trademark with Customs, the agency can detain or confiscate products bearing the infringed mark upon either import or export, and levy fines. However, such confiscations usually require the posting of a substantial bond at the port where the goods are seized.

Other national and local Chinese Government agencies also are involved with IPR policy and enforcement, some of which have overlapping responsibilities with other organizations and/or concurrent enforcement authorities. Jurisdiction on key issues is often fragmented, making coordination of enforcement efforts difficult. The branch offices of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in China (located in Beijing, Guangzhou, and Shanghai) would like to hear from companies with specific proposals to work with Chinese enforcement agencies in helping them to identify infringing goods and improve enforcement in specific industrial sectors.

China's current IPR laws generally provide referrals for criminal prosecution when the threshold for a criminal IPR violation has been reached. Such measures have become increasingly important in addressing high piracy and counterfeiting rates, and deterring organized crime, which is now involved in various forms of IPR piracy and counterfeiting. These thresholds for criminal prosecution, however, are quite high. Police and prosecutors (known as the Procuratorate in China) may lack familiarity with IPR criminal matters. As a result, these authorities may require an excessive level of formality concerning evidence from a victim, including repetitive authentication and consularization of documents. Still developing in China are the relationship between administrative and criminal causes of action, the handling of recidivists, and the preservation of evidence. China has published various procedural rules for improving the transfer of administrative cases for criminal prosecution. As yet, however, this has not resulted in a significant increase in criminal referrals.

China continues to determine the magnitude of certain IPR violations and penalties through the posted sales price of an infringing product, rather than the harm posed to the rights holder. In December 2004, China's Supreme People's Court and Supreme People's Procuratorate issued a Judicial Interpretation that lowered the monetary thresholds for criminal prosecution in IPR cases. The Judicial Interpretation also changed the requirement that a minimum amount of sales be proven, instead requiring only that a minimum value of illegal business activity be proven. Now, contrary to prior practice, large amounts of unsold infringing product can form the basis for a criminal prosecution. The Judicial Interpretation, however, lacks a clear formula for valuation. As a result, only a modest increase in criminal trademark prosecutions has resulted. Some cases have not been pursued or have resulted in light penalties because the courts have utilized the low value of the counterfeit product, as opposed to the retail price of the legitimate product, to calculate the amount of ill-gotten gain.

In 2006, China developed a national network of 50 IPR complaint centers, with a "12312" hotline number, effective throughout China. Since then, the Ministry of Commerce has renamed them as "12312 Commercial Complaint Centers," and is responsible for their management. These call centers handle not only IPR complaints, but also reports concerning market order. The Ministry of Commerce requires that each province and larger municipalities establish a "12312 Commercial Complaint Center." Additional information may be found at: [www.12312.gov.cn](www.12312.gov.cn). Note, though, that the site is presented only in Chinese. Another hotline is "12315" for consumer-protection issues, under the direction of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce.

China also has specialized IPR tribunals in major and secondary cities, and an IPR division in the Supreme People's Court. China, though, lacks specialized criminal IPR prosecutors, such those with the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section of the U.S. Department of Justice. In late 2005, authorities established a dedicated criminal intellectual property office within the Ministry of Public Security, which has developed investigative templates for police officers involved in intellectual property matters.

As part of its TRIPs obligations, China provides for appeals of final decisions from the State Intellectual Property Office and the China Trademark Office regarding patent and trademark applications, respectively. The Supreme People's Procuratorate, akin to a chief prosecutor, operates independently, and is co-equal to the courts and other parts of the executive branch. Many Chinese judges, prosecutors, and police officers lack adequate legal training, resulting in reduced effectiveness of criminal prosecutions. The Supreme People's Court, however, has issued interpretations of Chinese laws addressing many of China's international IPR obligations, including internet-related copyright and domain-name disputes. The Supreme People's Court also has issued certain interpretations to implement China's TRIPs obligations that provide preliminary injunctive relief for various IPR matters.

####Patents

In 1998, China reorganized its patent office in an effort to improve IPR coordination and enforcement, and renamed it the State Intellectual Property Office (SIPO). SIPO is an integral player in China's National IP Strategy, which was announced in 2008.

Domestic and foreign patent applications have increased steadily, since China's Patent Law was first enacted in 1984. Recently, the Patent Law was revised for the third time, and went into effect on October 1, 2009.

In January 1993, patent protection was extended to pharmaceutical and chemical products, as well as processes; the period of protection was extended to twenty years. At that time, other amendments empowered the patent holder with the right to exclude others from importing infringing products, and prohibited the unauthorized sale or importation of products manufactured with the use of patented processes. As yet, China does not provide similar protection for certain biotechnology and business-method patents as in the United States.

On January 1, 1994, China acceded to the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). China now is obligated to perform international patent searches, and conduct preliminary examinations of patent applications. In early 2003, in a positive development, China amended its legislation to further harmonize with international practice regarding examination of PCT applications. Later, in mid-2003, China issued new rules regarding compulsory licensing of patents according to certain defined circumstances and procedures. In late 2005, SIPO promulgated a regulation regarding compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical products to prevent or cure infectious diseases during public-health crises. In 2007, China ratified the protocol amending the WTO's TRIPs Agreement, allowing pharmaceutical products made under compulsory license to be exported to countries lacking production capacity, as well as permanently enabling developing and least-developed member countries to produce or import generic versions of patented drugs to deal with epidemics. The revised Patent Law allows for easier granting of a compulsory license for pharmaceuticals under Article 50, and for semiconductor technology under Article 52. To date, however, there have not been any reported instances of compulsory licensing of patents.

U.S. companies have begun filing for protection of utility-model and design patents in China. While only cursory examination is performed on utility-model and design-patent applications, the belief now is that some protection is better than none at all. For utility-model patents, foreign ownership of such rights is as low as one percent compared to total registrations. In design-patent matters, Chinese companies, after viewing a new design on a competitor's web site or at a trade fair, file for protection of the designs belonging to the competitor or foreign company. While such patents may be invalidated, the process is time-consuming and expensive. SIPO has attempted to limit this type of "patent squatting." As a result, American companies increasingly are filing utility-model and design-patent applications to mitigate their exposure, though this practice is less commonly employed in the United States. U.S. companies also should consider obtaining other appropriate rights, such as trademark registrations, before any public display or product introduction in order to minimize problems. Doing so ensures obtaining priority filing dates and, in the case of patents, lessens exposure to other issues, such as lack of novelty.

Some Chinese scholars and officials have argued that patent protection and other IP rights can be a "technical barrier to trade," a "monopolistic" or "unfair activity." They also state that foreign companies should be forced to license their patents as part of a national standards-setting process. Separately, Chinese companies have been instituting unfair-competition cases against their competitors. With the 2007 enactment of the Anti-Monopoly Law, all of these risks need to be carefully evaluated, particularly in certain industrial sectors.

China's Patent Law currently does not afford patent-term restoration, which would extend a patent term due to delays in obtaining marketing approval for patented pharmaceutical products. In 2002, the State Food and Drug Administration began applying the "Implementing Regulation of the Pharmaceutical Administration Law of the People's Republic of China," containing Article 35 which addresses "data exclusivity" provisions. However, transparency and interagency-coordination issues have prevented establishing an effective system of data exclusivity and patent linkage. It is hoped that China will adopt measures to improve the climate for pharmaceutical research and development. Innovative pharmaceutical companies also face the following challenges: widespread counterfeiting; extensive availability of certain bulk active ingredients; and delays and restrictions in market access for their products. In 2007, various agreements were signed between our governments that have facilitated further cooperation in addressing the scourge of Chinese-origin counterfeit and substandard pharmaceuticals, foods, and other products.

####Copyrights

In March 1992, China established bilateral copyright relations with the United States. In October 1992, it acceded to both the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works and the Universal Copyright Convention. In April 1993, China joined the Geneva Phonograms Convention. Following accession to the Berne Convention, China explicitly recognized computer software as a literary work, granting fifty years of protection to computer programs without mandatory registration requirements for foreign rights holders. In addition to amendments to China's Copyright Law, its Supreme People's Court has taken steps to address digital and internet-based copyright issues. In March 2007, China acceded to the two WIPO Internet Treaties, known formally as the WIPO Copyright Treaty and WIPO Performance and Phonograms Treaty. Internet piracy is a widespread phenomenon, particularly as internet penetration spreads throughout China. Industry groups report that piracy on university campuses is widespread, including textbook piracy and illegal downloads of music and movies. In late 2006, significant efforts were initiated to address these problems. The United States asked for increased governmental coordination as well as legislative changes in copyright enforcement.

Copyright issues and enforcement are divided among several Chinese agencies, resulting in confusing multi-jurisdictional challenges. These agencies include the National Copyright Administration of China, the Ministry of Culture, the National Anti-Pornography and Anti-Piracy Office, the General Administration of Press and Publication, and the State Administration for Radio, Film, and Television.

Inadequate market access for foreign films, books, and music has led to a large black market for these goods. China does not confer publishing rights for foreign music and book firms. In certain circumstances, it requires compulsory licensing of some books used to implement national education plans. Delays occur during "content review" of entertainment software, whereby at least two ministries evaluate the internet-based content as well as the physical (compact-disc based) content.

China maintains a ceiling on the number of foreign films allowed to enter the country. In 2003, China authorized a then-new company, Huaxia, to distribute foreign films, creating a duopoly in place of the China Film Group's earlier monopoly. However, these two companies still are subject to the same ceiling of twenty revenue-sharing foreign films per year. Neither distributor comes close to fulfilling the market's demands, relegating consumers to purchase pirated DVDs (digital video discs) or VCDs (video compact discs) in order to watch films that are not otherwise legally available. Periodically, the State Administration for Radio, Film, and Television will impose de facto or de jure blackouts, or suspend content review of new releases, causing concern to many rights holders.

####Trademarks

Based in Beijing, the China Trademark Office is a sub-agency of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, and is the most active trademark office in the world by the number of applications filed. This arrangement is similar to that of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, an agency of the United States Department of Commerce. China's trademark regime generally comports with international standards, with the principal exception being China's historical lack of equal recognition accorded to foreign well-known trademarks.

In 2003, China revised its ministerial regulations for well-known marks. The rules required companies alleging infringement to prove that their marks are well-known within China based on sales, marketing, and advertising figures. As a result, some foreign marks have achieved well-known-mark status, and should be accorded the same enhanced enforcement available to domestic Chinese well-known marks. In addition to the administrative registration process, China's civil-litigation courts have recognized trademarks as well-known. In 2007, a Beijing court recognized an unregistered foreign mark as well-known, a first in Beijing and an important step in according protection for foreign marks. However, such recognition of a foreign mark as well known is extremely rare; rights holders still should consider securing their rights in a timely fashion through the appropriate registration procedure. Another major challenge is the lengthy delay in examination of new trademark applications due to the rapid growth in filings. U.S. companies are advised to file as early as possible.

China protects geographical indications (GIs) using several different vehicles. One scheme uses certification and collective marks under the trademark system. The China Trademark Office is responsible for protecting GIs in this manner.

Separately, China has an unusual two-agency _sui generis_ system for registration of GIs, the first under the Administration for Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine (AQSIQ) which roughly is the equivalent of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the second for agricultural products administered through the Ministry of Agriculture. Note, however, that neither the AQSIQ nor the Ministry of Agriculture can protect a GI as a trademark. To acquire protection of a GI as a trademark, it must be registered with the China Trademark Office.

In October 1989, China joined the Madrid System for the International Registration of Marks, otherwise known as the "Madrid Protocol," allowing for reciprocal trademark registrations to member countries. The United States acceded to the Madrid Protocol in 2006.

China has a "first-to-file" system which can allow an unscrupulous third party to attempt registration of popular foreign and Chinese marks without knowledge of the legitimate trademark owner. "Trademark squatters," as well as "domain-name squatters" (see below), have the potential for creating all manner of problems when the legitimate rights holder attempts to register its mark or domain name. Consequently, foreigners seeking to do business in China should consider registering their word mark and/or design mark, the Chinese-calligraphy equivalent of the word mark, the pinyin transliteration, and the internet domain name.

In addition to Mainland China, rights holders would be well-advised to consider registering its marks and the variants discussed in Hong Kong and Taiwan. On occasion, the China Trademark Office will cancel registration of marks held in the name of Chinese agents of U.S. distributors who, without authorization, registered such marks in their own name. Separately, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce registers company and enterprise names.

In September 2010, China, the United States, Japan, and the European Union met in Beijing to convene the first-ever conference focusing on the trademark-squatting issue in China. Of special note was the fact, instead of only foreign interests complaining about trademark squatting, numerous Chinese rights holders and trademark attorneys now voiced their concern about the issue as well. In June 2011, a follow-up meeting was held in Beijing.

####Domain Names

A domain name serves as an internet address. A trademark can consist of words, names, designs, sounds, and/or colors that serve as a source indicator, distinguishing goods and services of one provider from others. The ".cn" domain-name suffix is very similar to non-Chinese domain names, and can lead to confusion as to the source of goods and services. The China Internet Network Information Center (CNNIC), under the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, authorizes service providers to register ".cn" domain names. In the summer of 2007, following CNNIC guidance, many of these authorized registrars voluntarily reduced their registration fees, and, in some cases, maintaining for one year, a ".cn" domain name for as little as RMB 1 or USD $0.15. This has led to a proliferation of unsolicited offers to U.S. domain-name owners from Chinese individuals and businesses, offering to register their domain names as ".cn" names. When Americans do express interest, they sometimes are advised that the ".cn" version of their domain name already has been registered, but can be purchased at an exorbitant price from domain-name squatters. The Commercial Service commends CNNIC's English-language web site, [http://www.cnnic.cn/en/index/index.htm](http://www.cnnic.cn/en/index/index.htm), to those interested in learning more about China's domain-name administration, registration, and structure. The site lists all authorized ".cn" domain-name registrars, and provides information on how to search for, register, dispute, and cancel ".cn" domain names.

Under China's trademark law, foreign companies without a presence in China must utilize a registered Chinese trademark agent or Chinese law firm to submit a trademark application. Foreign attorneys or the Chinese agent may prepare the application. China's trademark law is undergoing revision, with a new law not likely to be promulgated until 2012 or 2013.

####Trade Secrets

Chinese and foreign companies in China widely pursue trade-secret protection. "The Law to Counter Unfair Competition" protects "commercial secrets," defined as information which can bring economic and practical benefits to authorized users, and are protected through appropriate security measures of a business operator. Commercial secrets include operational and technical information not available to the general public.

Sanctions include civil remedies such as damages, administrative sanctions such as fines, and criminal penalties for "serious violations." China is further obligated to protect trade secrets under the TRIPs Agreement. Laws and rules of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and other ministries at a national and local level provide for enforcement of non-compete provisions concerning employees with access to business-sensitive information. In order for such non-compete provisions to be effective, however, reasonable compensation must be provided to the employee.

The TRIPs Agreement mandates that China provide protection for certain non-disclosed clinical data used in securing regulatory approvals. The Ministry of Agriculture has adopted implementing rules for this TRIPs obligation. In 2002, China passed Article 35 of the "Implementing Regulation of the Pharmaceutical Administration Law of the People's Republic of China" to address data-exclusivity issues. It remains unclear, however, whether China's regulations concerning data exclusivity provide sufficient protection for innovator data contained in applications for marketing approval that generic drug producers submit.

####Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits

China adopted regulations for the protection of integrated-circuit layout designs as part of its WTO accession. The State Intellectual Property Office handles registration. Administrative and civil enforcement measures exist to protect these designs.

####Regulation of Technology Licensing

The Chinese Government continues to seek new technology through selective introduction of foreign investment and technology transfer. In a policy entitled "indigenous innovation," China is promoting development of its own technology and intellectual property through proprietary research and development facilities. It seeks to use Chinese knowledge and expertise where possible, through government-procurement rules, standards-setting initiatives, and investment policy.

Laws governing foreign investment contain provisions requiring transfer of intellectual property as part of the equity contribution of foreign-invested enterprises. A new regulatory scheme has replaced China's 1985 rules on technology-import contracts, and regulations on technology export, which included contract licensing, patents, trademarks, know-how, trade secrets, and contracts for technical services. Technology-licensing contracts now are submitted to the Ministry of Commerce or its provincial offices for filing, rather than for substantive review. The former restriction that most technology contracts not extend beyond ten years has been removed. Current regulations, however, require that any improvements in technology licensed by foreigners to a Chinese entity now belong to the licensee. China also imposes other controls on exports of technology to address its own commercial and national security concerns. Some foreign companies complain that many Chinese localities continue to impose burdensome requirements on technology transfers, and intervene in commercial negotiations, despite changes in Chinese law that require only recordation, but not review, of such agreements. Moreover, proposed revisions to other laws may affect the ability of foreign-owned, China-based research and development institutions to file patents overseas without first obtaining a foreign filing license or equivalent.

####IPR Protection at Trade Fairs

On January 1, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the National Copyright Administration, and the State Intellectual Property Office jointly presented the "Protection Measures for Intellectual Property Rights during Exhibitions." These guidelines, which are not mandatory, recommend that trade fairs lasting at least three days' duration should establish "IPR Complaint Centers" supported by personnel from local bureaus that handle trademarks, copyrights, and patents. If the organizer decides against having an on-site IPR complaint center, it is supposed to assist complaining rights holders with contacting local IPR authorities to register their complaints for resolution. Various localities have issued similar rules, including the Beijing municipality in 2007.

These 2006 guidelines, which seek to remove infringing goods from displays through cooperation between local IPR authorities and trade-fair organizers, operate on a "three strikes and you're out" principle. To date, though, anecdotal evidence from complaining U.S. rights holders suggests that some local IPR authorities are slow to embrace this initiative, since some have refused to get involved, even after being contacted by trade-fair organizers. Even where IPR complaint centers have been set up, documentary requirements for right holders to establish their rights have been inconsistent and overly burdensome. When U.S. rights holders have documented their ownership rights to the satisfaction of the staffers at the IPR complaint centers, alleged infringers are merely given a warning to remove the offending products from their displays. In some instances, rights holders discover that infringers bring out again the offending products once they believe that the authorities have departed.

At the beginning of 2007, the Department of Commerce (DOC) launched an initiative to protect IPR at trade fairs that it sponsors or supports. The plan seeks to ensure a basic level of IPR protection at any trade fair which the Department and/or the U.S. Commercial Service (CS) sponsors or provides substantial support. It requires that all U.S. exhibitors attest that they have not knowingly infringed IPR, a declaration that all Department-supported trade fairs eventually will require. The initiative requires the organizers of U.S. Pavilions and members of the U.S. Commercial Service to explain to American exhibitors the IPR protection policies of each trade fair. They also must be ready to assist U.S. exhibitors in securing legal representation to enforce their rights during the fair.

In February 2007, the program was officially launched in China with an assignment to benchmark the IPR protection policies and procedures of trade-fair organizers who arrange over three dozen trade fairs which DOC and CS in China sponsor each year. The Commercial Service and the China Mission of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office continually review these policies and procedures, monitor effectiveness during trade fairs, work with China's Ministry of Commerce and IPR authorities to improve the effectiveness of IPR protection, and leverage DOC-CS support as an incentive to improve IPR protection at individual trade fairs.

####Protection of Property Rights

As outlined in the "Dispute Settlement and Protection of Property Rights" sections of Chapter 6 entitled "Investment Climate," the Chinese legal system mediates acquisition and disposition of property. Besides the weaknesses of Chinese courts outlined below, there are limits on ownership of two significant property rights in China: real estate and intellectual property.

####Warning Signs of a Scam

Although China's booming economy offers great opportunities for U.S. companies, businesses looking to invest or export to any foreign country should always exercise caution. Several exporters have reported unsolicited buyer interest from China and elsewhere that later turned out to be bogus. While not all unsolicited interest is fraudulent, American companies should always be wary when considering such invitations. Requests for advance payments, samples or prototypes to be sent in advance of sales negotiations, cash for a banquet far in excess of typical costs, cash for travel expenses for an "essential" U.S. meeting, all pose red flags indicating that a business opportunity may be fraudulent. To report a suspicious business offer from China, contact your local U.S. Export Assistance Center ([http://export.gov/usoffices/index.asp](http://export.gov/usoffices/index.asp)) or the China Business Information Center at: [chinabic@trade.gov](mailto:chinabic@trade.gov). CS in China can assist exporters through a range of fee-based due-diligence services listed on our website: [http://www.buyusa.gov/china/en/our_services.html#_section4](http://www.buyusa.gov/china/en/our_services.html#_section4).

####Protecting Your Intellectual Property in China

Several general principles are important for effective management of intellectual property ("IP") rights in China. First, it is important to have an overall strategy to protect your IP. Second, IP is protected differently in China than in the United States. Third, rights must be registered and enforced in China under local laws. Intellectual property rights are territorial and stop at the border's edge. Your U.S. trademark and patent registrations will not protect you in China. Similarly, there is no "international copyright" that will protect an author's writings throughout the entire world. Protection against unauthorized use in a particular country depends, basically, on the national laws of that country. However, most countries do offer copyright protection to foreign works under certain conditions, and these conditions have been greatly simplified by international copyright treaties and conventions.

Registration of patents and trademarks is on a first-in-time, first-in-right basis, so you should consider applying for trademark and patent protection even before selling your products or services in the Chinese market. Intellectual property is primarily a private right. The U.S. Government generally cannot enforce rights for private individuals in China or elsewhere. It is the responsibility of the rights holders to register, protect, and enforce their rights where relevant, retaining their own counsel and advisors. Companies may wish to seek advice from local attorneys or IP consultants who are experts in Chinese law. The U.S. Commercial Service can provide a list of local lawyers:

* Beijing:  [http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/acs_legal.html](http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/acs_legal.html).

* Guangzhou: [http://guangzhou.usembassy-china.org.cn/service/other-services/legal-services-providers-in-south-china.html](http://guangzhou.usembassy-china.org.cn/service/other-services/legal-services-providers-in-south-china.html).

* Shanghai:  [http://shanghai.usembassy-china.org.cn/law_firms.html](http://shanghai.usembassy-china.org.cn/law_firms.html).

While the U.S. Government stands ready to assist, there is little it can do if the rights holders have not taken these fundamental steps to secure and register their IP in a timely fashion. Moreover, in many countries, rights holders who delay enforcing their rights on a mistaken belief that the U.S. Government can provide a political resolution to a legal problem may find their rights eroded or abrogated due to legal doctrines such as statutes of limitations, laches, estoppel, or unreasonable delay in prosecuting a law suit. Under no circumstances should U.S. Government advice be seen as a substitute for a rights holder's obligation to promptly pursue its case.

It is always advisable to conduct due diligence on potential partners. Negotiate from the position of your partner, and give your partner clear incentives to honor the contract. A good partner is an important ally in protecting IP rights. Consider carefully, however, whether to permit your partner to register your IP rights on your behalf. Doing so may create a risk that your partner will list itself as the IP owner, and then fail to transfer the rights should the partnership end. Keep an eye on your cost structure, and reduce the margins (and the incentive) of would-be bad actors. Projects and sales in China require constant attention. Work with legal counsel familiar with Chinese laws to create a solid contract that includes non-compete clauses, and confidentiality/non-disclosure provisions.

It is also recommended that small and medium-size companies understand the importance of working together with trade associations and organizations to support efforts to protect IP and stop counterfeiting. There are a number of these organizations, both China- and U.S.-based. These include:

* The U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, D.C., and local American Chambers of Commerce in various Chinese cities
* The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)
* The International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA)
* The International Trademark Association (INTA)
* The Coalition Against Counterfeiting and Piracy of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
* The International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition (IACC)
* The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)
* The Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)

####IP Resources

Much information on protecting IP is freely available to American rights holders. Some excellent resources for companies regarding intellectual property include the following:

* Information about patent, trademark, or copyright issues – including enforcement issues in the U.S. and other countries: Call the STOP! Hotline at 1-866-999-HALT (4258), or register at: [www.stopfakes.gov](www.stopfakes.gov).

* Information about registering trademarks and patents in both the U.S. and foreign countries: Call the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) at 1-800-786-9199, or visit: [www.uspto.gov](www.uspto.gov).

* Information about registering for copyright protection in the United States: Call the U.S. Copyright Office at 1-202-707-5959, or visit: [www.copyright.gov](www.copyright.gov).

* Information about evaluating, protecting, and enforcing intellectual property rights, and IPR's importance to businesses: Review the free on-line training program available at: [www.stopfakes.gov](www.stopfakes.gov).

* For small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), the U.S. Department of Commerce offers a "SME IP-Advisory Program," available through the American Bar Association, which provides one hour of free IP legal advice for those wishing to do business in Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Russia, and many other countries. For details and to register, visit: [http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/intlproj/iprprogram_consultation.html](http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/intlproj/iprprogram_consultation.html).

* Information on obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights and market-specific IP toolkits, visit [www.stopfakes.gov](www.stopfakes.gov). This site is linked to the PTO web site ([www.uspto.gov](www.uspto.gov)) for registering trademarks and patents in both the U.S. and foreign countries. It also is connected to the web site of U.S. Customs and Border Protection's e-recordation portal ([https://apps.cbp.gov/e-recordations/](https://apps.cbp.gov/e-recordations/)), which allows rights holders to record registered trademarks and copyrights, empowering CBP officers with more information to interdict imports of infringing products. Rights holders also can peruse recordings of previous webinars that cover a wide variety of IP topics.

* The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has positioned IPR Attachés and Officers in key markets around the world. The PTO has two representatives in China. In Beijing, Ms. Nancy Kremers serves as the Senior IPR Attaché at the U.S. Embassy, and can be reached at: [nancy.kremers@trade.gov](mailto:nancy.kremers@trade.gov). In Guangzhou, Mr. Conrad Wong is the IPR Officer at U.S. Consulate General. Please contact him at: [conrad.wong@trade.gov](conrad.wong@trade.gov).

###Due Diligence	

Return to top

While China is one of the most promising global markets, it is also one of the most challenging environments for American companies. Many U.S. companies are able to profitably enter and operate in the Chinese market, but each year a large number of firms face serious difficulties that frequently result in costly and disruptive local business disputes.

A large number of these disputes might have been successfully avoided through due diligence. The primary causes of commercial disputes between Chinese and American companies include breach of contractual payment obligations, irregularities in accounting practices, financial mismanagement, undisclosed debt, and the struggle for control within joint ventures. These problems can be minimized by investigating the financial standing and reputation of local companies before signing contracts or entering into a partnership agreement.

Both U.S. and Chinese service providers with offices in China conduct due diligence investigations. The fees charged by these companies should typically be considered a worthwhile investment to ensure that the local customer or partner is financially sound and reliable. As a part of the overall due diligence process, CS is able to assist American companies to evaluate potential business partners through its International Company Profile service. As a general rule of thumb, CS in China strongly encourages more due diligence in China than one would typically need in the United States. CS also supplies a number of useful reference documents to help identify and minimize business risks in China.

###Local Professional Services	

Return to top

The system for regulation of foreign commercial activity in China is difficult to navigate and is not fully transparent. Companies new to the market are strongly encouraged to retain professional services to structure commercial transactions. Establishing a wholly foreign owned subsidiary, joint venture, or representative office requires compliance with complex contract approval requirements, business registration requirements, taxation regulations and statutes, and labor regulations. Many U.S. banks, accountants, attorneys, and consultants have established offices in China and are familiar with Chinese requirements. Some Chinese professional service providers also have substantial experience serving foreign clients.

####Accountants

Chinese law requires representative offices and foreign-invested enterprises to engage the services of accountants registered in China to prepare official submission of annual financial statements and other specified financial documents. Therefore, only Chinese accountants and joint venture accounting firms may provide these services. All of the major U.S. accounting firms have established offices in China and provide services including audit, tax and advisory services, the preparation of investment feasibility studies, and setting up accounting systems that are in compliance with Chinese law.

####Attorneys

Over one hundred U.S. and international law firms have received approval to register in China as foreign law firms, and currently operate in China. Foreign law firms registered in China are restricted to advising clients on legal matters pertaining to the jurisdiction where they are licensed and general international business practices. Although a foreign lawyer may not offer a legal opinion, clients can obtain assistance with structuring transactions, drafting contracts and resolving disputes. Only attorneys licensed in China may appear in court and provide legal advice on Chinese legal matters. Chinese lawyers are allowed to work at foreign law firms, but they may not practice law as licensed Chinese attorneys. Foreign lawyers are not permitted to qualify to practice law in China and are not allowed to form joint ventures with Chinese lawyers.

The legal services that a foreign law office can provide are limited to: 1) providing consulting services to its clients with regard to the home legal affairs for which it is licensed and international conventions and practices; 2) providing legal services to its clients or Chinese law firms with regard to legal affairs in the country/region for which it is licensed; 3) entrusting Chinese law firms with regard to China legal affairs on behalf of its foreign clients; 4) establishing long-term contractual relationships with Chinese law firms with regard to legal clientele; and 5) providing information with regard to the impact of Chinese legislation.

####Management Consultants

Foreign companies new to the Chinese market often engage the services of local consultants to develop market entry strategies, conduct due diligence investigations, and identify potential investment partners, sales agents and customers. Most of the major foreign consulting firms are active in the Chinese market, along with a number of small niche players, as well as many local companies.

####Advertising

Almost 100,000 advertising firms exist in China, of which perhaps 400 are foreign invested enterprises. Many major international advertising firms have established a presence in China. Companies new to the market can gain valuable advice from top-notch advertising firms on how to craft an effective advertising strategy that is responsive to Chinese consumer preferences and cultural differences. Advertising is strictly regulated in China, and penalties for violation of the law through misleading advertisements, unauthorized use of national symbols, or other prohibited forms of advertising are subject to fines.

The U.S. Commercial Service maintains lists of U.S. law, accounting and consulting firms with offices in China, as well as lists of Chinese firms with whom the Commercial Office or its customers have had favorable dealings. Local professional services can be found at: [http://www.buyusa.gov/china/enbsp_listing.html](http://www.buyusa.gov/china/enbsp_listing.html).

###Web Resources
	
Return to top

U.S. Commercial Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, China (English)  
[www.export.gov/china](www.export.gov/china)

International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce  
[www.trade.gov](www.trade.gov) (now built into the [export.gov/china](export.gov/china) site)

China Trade Show Events  
[http://export.gov/china/tradeevents/eg_cn_043294.asp](http://export.gov/china/tradeevents/eg_cn_043294.asp)

American Chamber of Commerce, China  
[www.amchamchina.org](www.amchamchina.org)

American Chamber of Commerce, Shanghai  
[www.amcham-shanghai.org](www.amcham-shanghai.org)

American Chamber of Commerce, South China  
[www.amcham-southchina.org/](www.amcham-southchina.org/)

U.S.-China Business Council  
[www.uschina.org](www.uschina.org)

U.S. Embassy, Beijing  
[beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/](beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/)

U.S. Consulate, Shanghai  
[shanghai.usembassy-china.org.cn/](shanghai.usembassy-china.org.cn/)

U.S. Consulate, Guangzhou  
[guangzhou.usembassy-china.org.cn/](guangzhou.usembassy-china.org.cn/)

U.S. Consulate, Chengdu  
[chengdu.usembassy-china.org.cn/](chengdu.usembassy-china.org.cn/)

U.S. Consulate, Shenyang  
[shenyang.usembassy-china.org.cn/](shenyang.usembassy-china.org.cn/)

The Chinese Central Government's Official Web Portal  
[http://english.gov.cn/](http://english.gov.cn/)

Guide to Investment in China (site of China's Ministry of Commerce)   
[http://fdi.gov.cn/index.htm](http://fdi.gov.cn/index.htm)

American Chamber of Commerce 2011 American Business in China Whitepaper  
[http://www.amchamchina.org/whitepaper2011](http://www.amchamchina.org/whitepaper2011)

American Chamber of Commerce 2011 Business Climate Survey  
[http://www.amchamchina.org/businessclimate2011](http://www.amchamchina.org/businessclimate2011)

Business Forum China  
[http://www.businessforum-china.com](http://www.businessforum-china.com/)]

Return to table of contents

