--- 
permalink: 'china/pricing.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
Most Chinese consumers are highly sensitive to price. The 9.1 percent annual inflation on food items in 2011 demonstrates this steep rise in prices. Industrial and government procurement purchasing decisions are also often focused primarily around price points and less around product and service quality. With carefully packaged service programs, however, Chinese industrial buyers can be convinced to pay a premium for higher quality products. Attractive export/import financing programs can also be an important tool for exporters, and Japanese and European equipment manufacturers often use them. Refer to Chapter 7 for additional information on export financing assistance opportunities for U.S. companies.

Chinese consumers do, however, regularly demonstrate a keen desire to pay a significantly higher price for products that provide a sense of prestige and sophistication. In 2011, China became the third largest market for global luxury brands, accounting for almost 25 percent of global sales of consumer luxury products. Simply carrying an imported label can often, though not always, be enough to put products into a premier price category. A recent store check by the Commercial Service's Shanghai office found imported U.S. children's vitamins priced at $55 for a 100-tablet bottle, with the same product selling for $12 in the United States. While a significant portion of such price differences is attributable to import duties and value-added tax, perceived higher quality and greater prestige of imported products has allowed importers to build in large profit margins. Refer to chapter 5 for more information on duties and taxes.
