--- 
permalink: 'chap5.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap5">Chapter 5: Trade Regulations, Customs and Standards</h1>

* Import Tariffs
* Trade Barriers
* Import Requirements and Documentation
* U.S. Export Controls
* Temporary Entry
* Labeling and Marking Requirements
* Prohibited and Restricted Imports
* Customs Regulations and Contact Information
* Standards
* Trade Agreements
* Web Resources

###Import Tariffs	

Return to top

A comprehensive guide to China's customs regulations is the Customs Clearance Handbook (2012), compiled by the General Administration of Customs (China Customs). This guide contains the tariff schedule and national customs rules and regulations, and can be purchased at bookshops in China, or be ordered from the following:

China Customs Press Online Bookstore  
[http://www.haiguanbook.com/shop/](http://www.haiguanbook.com/shop/)  
1st Floor, East Wing,  
General Administration of Customs of PRC,  
No. 6, Jianguomen Nei Street,  
Dongcheng District, Beijing, China  
Phone: (86 10) 6519-5616  
Fax: (86 10) 6519-5127  
E-mail: [bjjyssd@sina.com](mailto:bjjyssd@sina.com)  
GAC Website: [http://english.customs.gov.cn/publish/portal191/](http://english.customs.gov.cn/publish/portal191/)  


####Tariff Rates

China Customs assesses and collects tariffs. Import tariff rates are divided into six categories: general rates, most-favored-nation rates, agreement rates, preferential rates, tariff rate quota rates and provisional rates. As a member of the WTO, imports from the United States are assessed at the most-favored-nation rate. The five Special Economic Zones, open cities, and foreign trade zones within cities offer preferential duty reductions or exemptions. Companies doing business in these areas should consult the relevant regulations.

China may apply tariff rates significantly lower than the published MFN rate in the case of goods that the government has identified as necessary to the development of a key industry. For example, China's Customs Administration has occasionally announced preferential tariff rates for items in the automobile industry, steel, and chemical products.

####Customs Valuation

The dutiable value of an imported good is its Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) price, which includes the normal transaction price of the good, plus the cost of packing, freight, insurance, and seller's commission. According to Customs Order 954, the "Administrative Regulation on Examination and Determination of the Dutiable Value of Imported and Exported Goods," China Customs is tasked with assessing a fair valuation to all imports. To assess a value, all Customs officers have access to a valuation database that lists appropriate valuations for various imports, based on international market prices, foreign market prices and domestic prices. Customs officers check the price reported by the importer against this database. Normally, Customs officers will accept the importer's price. However, if the reported value is too far out of line with the database, the Customs officer will estimate the value of the goods based on methods listed in Article 7 of the PRC Administrative Regulations.

####Taxes

On top of normal tariff duties, both foreign and domestic enterprises are required to pay value-added taxes (VAT) and business taxes. VAT is assessed on sales and importation of goods and processing, repairs and replacement services. Business taxes are assessed on providers of services, the transfer of intangible assets and/or the sales of immovable properties within China. VAT is assessed after the tariff, and incorporates the value of the tariff. China is bound by WTO rules to offer identical tax treatment for domestic and imported products. VAT is collected regularly on imports at the border. Importers note that their domestic competitors often fail to pay taxes.

VAT rebates up to 17 percent (a full rebate) are available for certain exports. The Chinese Government frequently adjusts VAT rebate levels to fulfill industrial policy goals. Exporters complain that it takes months to obtain the rebates and amounts are often miscalculated. Also, rebates are limited by the local budgets, and coastal provincial authorities often run out of funds for rebates well before the end of the year. The applicable rebate method varies according to the date the enterprise was established.

The U.S. signed a tax treaty with China that took effect on January 1, 1987. It provides certain benefits and allows for the avoidance of double taxation, but in order to enjoy the benefits provided by the tax treaty, non-residents (enterprises and individuals) must register with their local tax authorities in accordance with Circular 124.

There is also a Business Tax (BT) to be paid by service providers who received income from providing services (generally 5 percent on gross income). A new law effective January 1, 2009 requires service providers located outside of China to pay the BT as long as the service recipient is located in China, and it is paid by the service recipient by withholding a portion of the payment payable (normally 5 percent) to the provider. The policy is not in accordance with our tax treaty and the U.S. Government has complained about it to SAT. They have agreed to convert the BT to VAT and started a pilot program in Shanghai. However, it is not yet a nation-wide policy and the BT is still in force.

Furthermore, in March 2007, the National People's Congress passed a unified Corporate Income Tax Law that eliminates many of the tax incentives that had typically been available to foreign invested manufacturers. The change, which took effect on January 1, 2008, introduced an overall 25 percent corporate income tax rate in lieu of a previous split between domestic (33 percent) and foreign-invested enterprises (15 percent) rates. There will be a five-year grace period during which foreign invested enterprises (FIEs) will be grandfathered into the new tax rate. The law includes two exceptions to the 25 percent flat rate: one for qualified small-scale and thin profit companies, which will pay 20 percent, and another to encourage investment by high tech companies, which will pay 15 percent. Additional incentives are available for investments in resource and water conservation, environmental protection, and work safety. Preferential tax treatment for investments in agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, and infrastructure development continues to be applied.

FIEs will likely see narrower profits as a result of the tax changes. However, the law provides new incentives to enterprises with high-wage labor costs. Under the 2007 law, financial services, securities, consulting, and other high-wage professional services firms will be able to deduct all wage outlays from their taxable income, which had previously been limited to RMB 1,600 (US$252.8) per month, per employee.

###Trade Barriers	

Return to top

Following China's accession to the WTO in 2001, the Chinese Government took significant steps to revise its laws and regulations in a manner consistent with WTO obligations and strengthen its role in the global economy. Nevertheless, despite progress in many areas, significant barriers for U.S. companies still exist. The U.S. Government strives to address these barriers through bilateral dialogue and engagement, active export promotion, and enforcement of U.S. and international trade laws and obligations. For more information on specific barriers, please see the U.S. Government's National Trade Estimate Report on Foreign Trade Barriers at: [http://www.ustr.gov/sites/default/files/uploads/reports/2010/NTE/2010_NTE_China_final.pdf](http://www.ustr.gov/sites/default/files/uploads/reports/2010/NTE/2010_NTE_China_final.pdf). Also, for a full report on China's compliance with WTO rules since joining that organization, please refer to the USTR "2011 Report to Congress on China's WTO Compliance" at: [http://www.ustr.gov/about-us/press-office/reports-and-publications/2011/2010-report-congress-china%E2%80%99s-wto-compliance](http://www.ustr.gov/about-us/press-office/reports-and-publications/2011/2010-report-congress-china%E2%80%99s-wto-compliance).

###Import Requirements and Documentation	

Return to top

Normally, the Chinese importer (agent, distributor, joint-venture partner, or FIE) will gather the documents necessary for importing goods and provide them to Chinese Customs agents. Necessary documents vary by product but may include standard documents such as a bill of lading, invoice, shipping list, customs declaration, insurance policy, and sales contract as well as more specialized documents such as an import quota certificate for general commodities (where applicable), import license (where applicable), inspection certificate issued by the General Administration of the PRC for Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine (AQSIQ) or its local bureau (where applicable), and other safety and/or quality licenses.

###U.S. Export Controls	

Return to top

The United States imposes export controls to protect national security interests and promote foreign policy objectives. The United States also participates in various multilateral control regimes to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) administers U.S. laws, regulations and policies governing the export and re-export of sensitive dual-use controlled commodities, software, and technologies ("items"). BIS implements U.S. export controls on all items falling under the jurisdiction of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) including dual-use items. "Dual-use" refers to items or technologies that have both civilian commercial and military applications. Additional information on export controls and BIS, including the EAR, can be found online at: [www.bis.doc.gov](www.bis.doc.gov).

The primary goal of BIS is to protect U.S. national security interests and promote foreign policy objectives. BIS also enforces anti-boycott laws and coordinates with U.S. agencies and other countries on export control, nonproliferation and strategic trade issues. BIS's Export Administration reviews license applications for exports, re-exports and deemed exports (technology transfers to foreign nationals in the United States) subject to the EAR. Through its Office of Exporter Services, Export Administration provides information on BIS programs, offers seminars on complying with the EAR, provides guidance on licensing requirements and procedures, and presents an annual Update Conference as an outreach program to industry.

BIS's Office of Export Enforcement is staffed with criminal investigators who investigate allegations of illegal exports of dual-use items. BIS posts Export Control Officers as attaches in Beijing, Hong Kong, New Delhi, Moscow, Singapore, and the United Arab Emirates.

Under the EAR, a license is required to export or re-export certain dual-use items to end-users in China. In some cases, an end-use check, which can take the form of either a Pre-License Check (PLC) or Post-Shipment Verification (PSV), is also required. During the 2004 Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT), BIS signed an Exchange of Letters on End-Use Visit Understanding (EUVU) with the Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM). This Exchange of Letters established procedures for arranging end-use visits in China. Implementation of the EUVU helps ensure that the intended recipients of U.S. exports of controlled dual-use items are using these items for their intended purposes and facilitates licensing determinations. U.S. exporters are required to obtain an End-User/End-Use Statement from MOFCOM for licensed transactions valued over $50,000 as part of the license application process. In certain circumstances, an End-user/End-Use Statement may be required for transactions of a lower dollar value.

In June 2007, the U.S. Government published a regulation introducing changes to export control policy towards China, known as the "China Rule." This regulation states that the United States seeks to facilitate exports to legitimate civilian end-users to China, while preventing exports that would enhance China's military capability. BIS also established a new Validated End-User (VEU) program, which allows qualified end-users who have an established track record of engaging in only civil activities to receive exports of specified items without individual licenses. Changes to the VEU program, including additions and deletions of VEU-authorized companies, are published in the Federal Register. Application for VEU is voluntary and can be made by an end-user in China or by a U.S. exporter on behalf of a customer in China. Interested companies can apply by submitting a request for an advisory opinion to BIS.

U.S. exporters can obtain information about how dual-use export license requirements may apply to the sale of their goods to China by submitting a commodity classification request to BIS. The commodity classification provides information on Export Control

Classification Number of the item as well as any applicable restrictions on exporting that item. Exporters also can request a written advisory opinion from BIS concerning how the regulations apply. Information on commodity classifications, advisory opinions, commodity jurisdiction, and export licenses can be obtained through the BIS website at [www.bis.doc.gov](www.bis.doc.gov) or by contacting the Office of Exporter Services:

Washington, D.C.  Tel: (202) 482-4811  Fax: (202) 482-3322  

Western Regional Office	 Tel: (949) 660-0144  Fax: (949) 660-9347  

Information about U.S. export controls on dual-use items can be obtained from BIS Export Control Officers at the Foreign Commercial Service, U.S. Embassy Beijing, Tel: (86 10) 8531-3301/4484 or Fax: (86 10) 8529-6558.

In 1990, the U.S. Congress passed P.L. 101-246, commonly referred to as the "Tiananmen Sanctions," which restrict the export and re-export of crime control and crime detection equipment and instruments listed in the EAR to China. The Tiananmen Sanctions also prohibit the export to China of defense articles and defense services subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). These restrictions apply regardless of the end-user in China.

In 1999, the U.S. Congress passed P.L. 105-261, which permits the export to China of missile-related equipment or technology only if the President first certifies to Congress that the specific proposed export is not detrimental to the United States space launch industry and the equipment or technology to be exported, including any indirect technical benefit, will not measurably improve China's missile or space launch capabilities.

Exporters are urged to check lists identifying specific end-users (persons, companies and entities) that are under U.S. Government sanctions or for whom export licenses may be required. Information on these lists, which include the Entity List, Denied Persons List, Specially Designated Nationals List, and Debarred List, is available on the BIS website at: [http://www.bis.doc.gov/complianceandenforcement/liststocheck.htm](http://www.bis.doc.gov/complianceandenforcement/liststocheck.htm). A consolidation of all U.S. Government sanctions lists can be found at: [http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp](http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp). U.S. exporters who engage in transactions with listed parties may themselves become subject to administrative and/or criminal penalties.

Additionally, the U.S. Department of State also imposes sanctions relating to proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and arms control. On June 28, 2005, President Bush signed Executive Order 13382, which amended E.O. 12938 by providing sanctions against entities that finance and support proliferation activities. Chinese entities have been sanctioned under this Executive Order, as well as under the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 (P.L. 106-178), Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992, and Executive Order 12938, as amended (E.O. 13094, E.O. 13882). Additional information on these sanctions can be found on the State Department website at: [http://www.state.gov/t/isn/c15231.htm](http://www.state.gov/t/isn/c15231.htm).

Other agencies also regulate exports of more specialized items. For example, the U.S. Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) administers U.S. export control regulations covering defense articles and services that appear on the U.S. Munitions List (USML), including satellites and related technologies. Information on U.S. Department of State export licensing procedures, the ITAR, and the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) can be found at: [http://www.pmddtc.state.gov/](http://www.pmddtc.state.gov/) or at Tel: (202) 663-1282. The point of contact for U.S. Department of State licensing issues at the U.S. Embassy Beijing is the Economic Section, Tel: (86 10) 8531-3000, Fax: (86 10) 8531-4949.

###Temporary Entry	

Return to top

**1. Trade Shows & Exhibitions**

Participants of trade shows and exhibitions can come into China on tourist visas and travel in-country. Notebook computers, cameras and portable printers can be brought into China as personal belongings. Business firms seeking to bring in exhibits and items for display should consult with customs authorities or the show organizers for regulation on the procedures and to obtain copies of appropriate forms.

**2. Temporary Entry**

Goods imported in China for display or demonstration at trade shows and exhibitions are exempt from Customs duty, provided they are re-exported within six months. The time for re-export may be extended with Customs approval. The exhibition organizer must obtain advance approval from Customs, provide certain shipping documents and a list of items to be exhibited, and coordinate with Customs officials. Customs may sometimes request a guarantee in the form of a deposit or letter.

A local sponsor with authority to engage in foreign trade may sponsor small exhibitions or technical seminars, requiring less than 1,000 square meters in exhibition space. Customs will handle the tariff exemption formalities based upon a guarantee of re-export that is signed between the sponsor and the foreign party.

Food and beverage exhibition "not-for-sale" sample-entry rules are not clearly defined and appear capriciously applied. U.S. exhibitors should contact the exhibition organizers to determine their liabilities regarding sample entries for such events before registering to participate, to obtain a clearer understanding of exhibition-related expenses.

Some exhibits or samples imported under the temporary not-for-sale regulations may be sold after the trade event is completed, in which case the duties owed on these items are levied by Customs.

According to the Corporation for International Business, the ATA Carnet Issuing authority in China no longer requires a cover letter along with the carnet presented to Chinese customs inspectors. The CIB is an ATA Carnet Service Provider of the U.S. Council for International Business (USCIB), New York City. USCIB is the Guaranteeing and Issuing Association for the ATA Carnet in the United States, under appointment of the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. Interested firms can contact the CIB by sending an e-mail to [carnets@atacarnet.com](mailto:carnets@atacarnet.com) or by calling the CIB Carnet hotline (800 ATA-2900).

Companies are advised that freight forwarders will help to prepare a declaration form and Chinese Customs requests the model and serial numbers for high-value exhibits. Requirements may differ for types of products to be imported. In addition, fumigation is required for all wooden packing materials, in accordance with IPPC standards, and must bear the IPPC symbol.

**3. Importing Commercial Samples into Beijing, China**

**Definition:**

**The import commercial sample** is referred to those articles imported specified for the reference purpose of placing an order.

**Related Regulations:**

Even if items can enter free of charge, it should be declared by the consignee or agent that registered in Customs.

Imported commercial samples subject to import controls should only be imported with licenses. It is recommended to consult with Customs at the destination before samples are sent from the origin country.

Imported commercial samples with no commercial value should be imported duty and VAT free, while all the other imported commercial samples are subject to duty and VAT.

Imported commercial samples that belong to companies that have not registered with Customs need to apply for temporary registration to Customs. It is recommended to consult the destination before samples are sent from the origin country.

**Notifications:**

If the commercial sample is made of any dangerous materials, it is recommended to send them directly to the final destination, and carriers and the final destination should be consulted prior to the samples being sent from the origin.

The normal operation for customs clearance in Beijing takes three days.

Never consign commercial samples to an individuals' name or hotel address.

It is highly recommended to check on the China Customs Regulations before sending samples.

**4. Passenger Baggage**

Reasonable quantities of items for personal use by short-term visitors may be imported duty-free. An individual is allowed to carry under $6,000 worth of foreign currency without having to declare it to Chinese Customs upon arrival.

**5. Advertising Materials and Trade Samples**

The General Administration of China Customs released a new regulation that went into effect on July 1, 2010. The objective is to further monitor import and export of samples and advertising articles into China. The regulation stipulates the following:

Removal of duty-free value limit of RMB 400. As a result, all shipments containing samples and advertising articles will be taxed according to their respective commodity HS codes. Exemption of Taxes now only applies to shipments fulfilling the following criteria.

a) Shipments with import tax less than RMB 50; and/or  
b) Shipments with no business value, to be applied by shippers from Monday to Friday (domestic overseas), that pass strict physical inspection by China Customs.  
c) Only those parties who have registered with China Customs can declare shipments (i.e. China shipper, China consignee, and agent).  

The following samples, regardless of value are dutiable: motor vehicles, bicycles, watches, televisions, recorders, radios, electric gramophones, cameras, refrigerators, sewing machines, photocopiers, air conditioners, electric fans, vacuum cleaners, acoustic equipment, video recording equipment, video cameras, amplifiers, projectors, calculators, electronic microscopes, electronic color analyzers and their major parts. In these cases, the shipper should not only use the word "sample" on the Air Waybill and Commercial Invoice, but also include a detailed description of the commodity. For more information contact the Customs General Administration of the People's Republic of
China at: [www.customs.gov.cn](www.customs.gov.cn).

**6. Representative Offices’ Personal Effects and Vehicles**

Representative offices must submit a written application to Customs if they intend to import any personal effects or vehicles. Approval by Customs waives any relevant import license requirements and allows the office to import the equipment in reasonable amounts for office-use only.

**7. Processing Materials and Parts**

Raw materials, components, spare parts, auxiliary materials, and packaging materials imported by FIEs for the production of goods which will be re-exported are exempt from customs duty and VAT. The materials and components must be processed into products and exported within one year from the date of importation. In special circumstances, an FIE can apply to extend the date of export to a total time no longer than two years from the date of importation. Bonded warehouses may be established within the FIE and are subject to supervision by Customs.

**8. Warehouses**

Goods that are allowed to be stored at a bonded warehouse for up to one or two years are limited to: materials and components to be used for domestic processing subject to re-exportation; goods imported under special Customs approval on terms of suspending the payment of import duties and VAT; goods in transit; spare parts for free maintenance of foreign products within the period of warranty; and fuel for aircraft and ships.

At the end of the two-year period, the goods must be imported for processing and re-exported, licensed for import, or disposed of by Customs. Customs duties and VAT may be assessed depending upon the degree of processing done in China. Goods imported under normal import contracts are not allowed to be stored in bonded warehouses.

###Prohibited and Restricted Imports	

Return to top

The following items are prohibited from entering China: arms, ammunition, and explosives of all kinds; counterfeit currencies and counterfeit negotiable securities; printed matter, magnetic media, films, or photographs which are deemed to be detrimental to the political, economic, cultural and moral interests of China; lethal poisons; illicit drugs; disease-carrying animals and plants; foods, medicines, and other articles coming from disease-stricken areas; old/used garments; and local currency (RMB). Food items containing certain food colorings and additives deemed harmful to human health by the Ministry of Health are also barred entry.

In addition, rules went into effect in June 1999 which further restrict or prohibit the importation of certain commodities related to the processing trade. The "Catalogue of Commodities Which are Restricted or Prohibited from Importing for Use in the Processing Trade" is designed to shift the direction of China's processing trade toward handling commodities with higher technological content and greater value-added potential. The catalogue identifies the following "prohibited commodities": used garments; used publications with licentious content; radioactive or harmful industrial waste; junk cars, used automobiles or components; seeds, seedlings, fertilizers, feed, additives, or antibiotics used in the cultivation or breeding of any export commodity. The catalogue lists seven general types of "restricted commodities": raw materials for plastics, polyester sections, raw materials for chemical fibers, cotton, cotton yarn, cotton cloth, and some steel products. This list has been updated yearly since 1999, with the last one published in 2010: ([http://cys.mofcom.gov.cn/aarticle/al/201009/20100907166511.html](http://cys.mofcom.gov.cn/aarticle/al/201009/20100907166511.html)).

However, these reports only show updates and do not reflect the final list. U.S. firms should contact the China General Administration of Customs for guidance regarding the import of any of these products. (See below for contact information)

All wood packages should carry an IPPC mark, or it will be subject to further requirements. The latest rule is called the Measures for the Administration of Quarantine and Supervision of Wooden Packages of Imported Goods, promulgated by AQSIQ, effective from January 1, 2006.

Scrap: In 2007, the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and

Quarantine (AQSIQ) published a "Notice Regarding Renewal Procedures for the License and Registration of Overseas Enterprises of Imported Scrap Materials," an English version of which can be found on their website. All written application materials should be marked "Renewal Application Materials for Registration of Overseas Supplier Enterprise for Scrap Materials" and mailed to:
Division of Inspection & Supervision,  
General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection & Quarantine of the P.R. of China (AQSIQ)  
No. 9, MaDian East Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100088, China  
Telephone for Enquiry: (86 10) 8226-0092.  

###Customs Regulations and Contact Information	

Return to top

China General Administration of Customs  
[http://english.customs.gov.cn/default.aspx](http://english.customs.gov.cn/default.aspx)  

###Standards	

Return to top
	
* Overview  
* Standards Organizations
* Conformity Assessment
* Product Certification
* Accreditation
* Publication of Technical Regulations
* Labeling and Marking
* Contacts


####Overview	Return to top

The Standardization Administration of China (SAC) is the central accrediting body for all activity related to developing and promulgating national standards in China. The China National Certification and Accreditation Administration (CNCA) coordinate compulsory certification and testing, including the China Compulsory Certification (CCC) system. Both SAC and CNCA are administratively under the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine (AQSIQ).

Standards in China fall into at least one of four broad categories: national standards, industry standards, local or regional standards, and enterprise standards for individual companies. National standards can be either mandatory (technical regulations) or voluntary. In any case, they take precedence over all other types of standards.

In general, exporters to China should be aware of three broad regulatory requirements in the standards and testing area. First, SAC maintains more than 27,000 national standards (known as GB standards, or guobiao in Chinese), of which slightly less than 13 percent are mandatory. It is also important to note that laws and regulations can reference voluntary standards, thereby making the voluntary standard, in effect, mandatory. Second, for products in 23 categories that include some 254 items and 489 HS codes , such as certain electrical products, information technology products, consumer appliances, fire safety equipment and auto parts), China's CNCA requires that a safety and quality certification mark, the aforementioned CCC mark, be obtained by a manufacturer before selling in or importing to China. Please refer to the Commodity List of Products Requiring the China Compulsory Certification for more information at: [http://www.shciq.gov.cn/templates/detail.jsp?id=9577](http://www.shciq.gov.cn/templates/detail.jsp?id=9577). Third, numerous government agencies in China mandate industry-specific standards or testing requirements for products under their jurisdiction in addition to the GB standards and the CCC mark described above.


####Standards Organizations	

Return to top

Technical Committees (TC) developing national or GB standards must be accredited by SAC. These TCs are comprised of members from government agencies, private industry associations, companies (sometimes local branches of foreign companies but often with limited voting rights), and academia.

Other government agencies, such as the National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, can approve and promulgate technical regulations that may reference voluntary standards, rendering them mandatory.

#####NIST Notify U.S. Service  
Member countries of the World Trade Organization (WTO) are required under the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT Agreement) to report to the WTO all proposed technical regulations that could affect trade with other Member countries. Notify U.S. is a free, web-based e-mail subscription service that offers an opportunity to review and comment on proposed foreign technical regulations that can affect your access to international markets. Register online at: [http://www.nist.gov/notifyus/](http://www.nist.gov/notifyus/).


####Conformity Assessment	

Return to top

CNCA is the primary government agency responsible for supervision of China's conformity assessment policies, including its primary safety and quality mark, the CCC mark. CNCA supervises the work of the China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment (CNAS), which accredits certification bodies and laboratory and inspection facilities.

####Product Certification	

Return to top

The China Compulsory Certification (CCC) mark is China's national safety and quality mark. The mark is required for 23 categories including 254 products, ranging from electrical fuses to toaster ovens to automobile parts to information technology equipment. About 20 percent of U.S. exports to China are on the product list. If an exporter's product is on the CCC mark list, it cannot enter China until CCC registration has been obtained, and the mark physically applied to individual products as an imprint or label. Similarly, domestic products cannot be sold in China without obtaining registration and applying the mark on individual products. The CCC mark system is administered by CNCA.

Obtaining the CCC Mark involves an application process to authorized Chinese certification bodies. At present, no foreign entities have been certified to participate in this process. The application process can take several months, and can cost upward from $4,500 in fees. The process includes sending testing samples to a Chinese laboratory and testing in those labs to ensure the products meet safety and/or electrical standards. A factory inspection of the applicant's factories, to determine whether the product line matches the samples tested in China, is also required. Finally, Chinese testing authorities approve the design and application of the CCC logo on the applicant's products. Some companies, especially those with a presence in China and with a dedicated certification/standards staff, are able to manage the application process in-house. Other exporters can tap the expertise of standards consultants based both in the U.S. and in China who can provide application management services and handle all aspects of the application process.

The U.S. Department of Commerce maintains a comprehensive CCC mark website to help U.S. exporters determine whether they need the CCC mark and how to apply: [http://www.mac.doc.gov/china/cccguide.htm](http://www.mac.doc.gov/china/cccguide.htm). The Department of Commerce also sponsors CCC mark seminars in cities across the United States. Contact the Office of Market Access and Compliance, China Economic Area of the Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration, or visit its website for more information.

Though the CCC mark is China's most widely required product certification mark, other product certification requirements exist. These include requirements for boilers and pressure vessels, under a product certification regime administered by the Special Equipment Licensing Office of AQSIQ. Another product certification scheme is required for certain measurement equipment, known as Certificate of Pattern Approval, which is also administered by AQSIQ.

####Accreditation	

Return to top

The China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment (CNAS) is the national accreditation body of China solely responsible for the accreditation of certification bodies, laboratories and inspection bodies, which is established under the approval of the Certification and Accreditation Administration of China (CNCA) and authorized by CNCA in accordance with the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Certification and Accreditation. Accredited bodies list can be found on the CNAS website: [http://eng.cnas.org.cn/col712/index.htm1?colid=712](http://eng.cnas.org.cn/col712/index.htm1?colid=712).

####Publication of Technical Regulations	

Return to top

China is obligated to notify other World Trade Organization members of proposed technical regulations that would significantly affect trade. Notifications are made through the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) committee notification point. All members, including China, are required to allow for a reasonable amount of time for comments to proposed technical regulations (i.e., compulsory standards).

####Labeling and Marking	

Return to top

Based on the Food Safety Law which went into effect June 1, 2009, imported pre-packed food shall have labels and instructions in Chinese. The labels and instructions shall conform to this law, other relevant laws, administrative regulations and national food safety standards of China, and state the place of origin as well as the name, address and contact information of the domestic agent.

As noted in the Product and Certification Section above, products requiring the CCC mark, in addition to undergoing an application and testing process, must have the mark physically applied on products before entering or being sold in China.

Labeling and marking requirements are mostly made by different industry authorities. However, all products sold in China must be marked in the Chinese language. The State Administration for Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine (AQSIQ) requires imported and exported (but not domestic) food items such as candy, wine, nuts, canned food, and cheese to have labels verified and products tested for quality before a good can be imported or exported. According to the Food Labeling Standards of China, imported foods shall have clear markings that indicate the country of origin, in addition to the name and address of the general distributor registered in the country.

####Contacts	

Return to top

Dale Wright, Standards Officer  
Tel: (86 10) 8531-4326  
[dale.wright@trade.gov](mailto:dale.wright@trade.gov)  

Liting Bao, Commercial Specialist  
Tel: (86 10) 8531-3889  
[Liting.Bao@trade.gov](mailto:Liting.Bao@trade.gov)  

###Web Resources	

Return to top

For a comprehensive list of accredited technical committees in China:  
Link in Chinese: [http://new.sac.gov.cn/SACSearch/search?channelid=61613](http://new.sac.gov.cn/SACSearch/search?channelid=61613)  

For a complete list of products required to obtain China Compulsory Certification:  
Link in Chinese: [http://www.shciq.gov.cn/templates/detail.jsp?id=9577](http://www.shciq.gov.cn/templates/detail.jsp?id=9577) (up-to-date English link not available).

For free notifications of proposed technical regulations and standards:  
[www.nist.gov/notifyus](www.nist.gov/notifyus).  

For free, weekly updates of standards activity in China, go to the Department of Commerce, International Trade Organization Standards web page:  
[http://www.ita.doc.gov/td/standards/](http://www.ita.doc.gov/td/standards/).

For information regarding rules of importation from AQSIQ, including a very useful map with links to local bureaus of entry-exit and quarantine:   
[http://english.aqsiq.gov.cn/](http://english.aqsiq.gov.cn/).  

Return to table of contents


