--- 
permalink: 'chap7.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap7">Chapter 7: Trade and Project Financing</h1>

* How Do I Get Paid (Methods of Payment)
* How Does the Banking System Operate
* Foreign-Exchange Controls
* Project Financing
* Web Resources

###How Do I Get Paid (Methods of Payment)	

Return to top

In China's liberalized economic regime, there are many ways to finance imports. The most commonplace are letters of credit and documentary collections. No matter what method is used, the Chinese importer needs to apply for the foreign exchange amount for the trade transaction from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE).

Please see the section below on "Foreign-Exchange Controls" for more information.

**1. Letters of Credit**

A Letter of Credit (L/C) is a written undertaking that a bank is to pay the beneficiary an amount of money within a specified time, provided that the documents under the L/C are in compliance with the terms and conditions thereof are presented.

China, as a member of the International Chamber of Commerce since 1995, is subject to the Unified Customs and Practice (UCP) 500 code regarding international trade payments.

Most Chinese commercial banks (e.g., Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of Communications, China Merchants Bank, and CITIC Bank, to name a few) have the authority to issue letters of credit for both imports and exports. Foreign banks with branch or representative offices in China can also issue letters of credit. Please refer to the following Chinese banks' website for details on how to apply for an L/C in China: [http://english.cmbchina.com/corporate+business/international/settle/settle3.htm](http://english.cmbchina.com/corporate+business/international/settle/settle3.htm).

**2. Documentary Collections**

This method of payment is similar to a letter of credit, but less formal and more flexible. Just as with letters of credit, the exporter submits a full set of trade documents for payment collection to the bank designated in the contract. The Chinese bank will send the documents to the home office, which examines them and, in some cases, passes them to the buyer for further examination. Payment is made after the documents have met the approval of all parties. This method of payment provides only limited coverage against default. It can be considerably less expensive than a letter of credit, but should be used with caution. It is the responsibility of the exporter to determine the specific instructions to be used in the collection letter.

**3. Other Methods**

a. Contract Advance (for wire remitted funds, therefore also called as T/T Finance): 

It is a specially tailored product for transactions under open account contract wherein

T/T payment terms are called for. Upon arrival of goods, the Chinese importer may apply for this service whereby a Chinese bank may advance the importer the payment to the exporter. The importers are to repay this advance after the goods are sold and the proceeds are received. Before applying for a contract advance, the importer needs to apply to the Chinese bank for a T/T Finance facility, which may be granted after assessment of the importer's financial status.

b. Import Factoring:

Import factoring is suitable for Open Account (O/A) import business. At the request of the supplier and in the light of a Chinese bank's internal appraisal of the importer's credit standing, the bank can offer the supplier a credit line, under which the bank will not only protect the export receivables assigned to the Chinese bank against the importer's credit risk, but also provide the importer with financial management services as well. The importer needs to select O/A as the payment term when negotiating with the supplier, and suggest the supplier to submit factoring application to a Chinese bank, i.e., the import factor, through the supplier's local export factor.

Upon receipt of the supplier's application, the import factor will notify the supplier of the credit line decision after comprehensive assessment of the importer's credit standing.

The supplier will dispatch goods and assign the related export receivables to the import factor in accordance with the approved credit line. When the factored invoices come due, the import factor will remind the importer to effect payment.

###How Does the Banking System Operate	

Return to top

####Banking System in China

Cooperation and competition co-exist between Chinese banks and foreign banks in China.

	1.  Regulators: People's Bank of China and China Banking Regulatory
Commission

Tasked to formulate and implement monetary policy, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) is China's central bank and reports to the State Council. The State Council, however, maintains oversight of the PBOC and makes all final decisions on China's major financial and monetary policy issues. According to the 1995 Central Bank Law, the PBOC has full autonomy in applying monetary instruments, including setting interest rates for commercial banks and trading in government bonds. It maintains the banking sector's payment, clearing and settlement systems, and manages official foreign exchange and gold reserves. The PBOC also oversees the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) in the setting of foreign exchange policies.

The China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) was launched on April 28, 2003 to improve the efficiency of bank supervision and allow the PBOC to further focus on the country's macro-economic and currency policy and to take over the bank supervisory role from the PBOC. CBRC is responsible for the regulation and supervision of banks, asset management companies, trust and investment companies as well as other deposit-taking financial institutions. Its mission is to maintain a safe banking system in China.

	2. The "Big Five" Chinese Commercial Banks

The largest five state-owned banks in China, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), the Bank of China (BOC), the China Construction Bank (CCB), the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), and Bank of Communications dominate the banking system and together account for well over half of all loans and deposits in China's banks. Several have become some of the largest banks in the world as valued by market capitalization. For example, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and China Construction Bank are the world's largest and second largest banks by market value. While the State, operating through the Ministry of Finance, continues to own a majority stake in each of these institutions. These five banks all are publicly listed in Chinese stock markets and also on international bourses. The "Big Five" constitute the absolute majority of bank lending in China. Bank lending remains the most important financing vehicle in the country; equity finance and the corporate bond market remain very small in comparison, while bank lending constitutes roughly 80 percent of total lending. The majority profits of a Chinese bank comes from the difference between the interest rate paid to depositors and the lending rate to the borrowers, which a generous spread is set by the central bank in order to protect the banks from fierce competition.

	3. Policy Banks

Three "policy" banks-the Agricultural Development Bank of China (ADBC), the China Development Bank (CDB), and the Export-Import Bank of China (EXIM) - were established in 1994 to take over the government-directed spending functions of the four state-owned commercial banks (ICBC, CCB, BOC and ABC). These banks are responsible for financing economic and trade development and state-invested projects. CDB specializes in infrastructure financing; ADBC provides funds for agricultural development projects in rural areas, and EXIM specializes in trade financing. The policy banks like EXIM are able to provide preferential loans with very flexible payment schedules at less than half the interest offered by any of the commercial banks. However, in the last decade the government has steered the policy banks in a new direction and put in motion a dramatic commercialization movement.

	4. Second Tier Joint-Stock Commercial Banks

The second-tier joint-stock commercial banks include CITIC Bank, China Everbright Bank, Hua Xia Bank, China Minsheng Bank, Guangdong Development Bank, Shenzhen Development Bank, China Merchants Bank, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, Industrial Bank, Evergrowing Bank, Zheshang Bank and the Bohai Bank. Since 2010, the joint-stock commercial banks in China have witnessed remarkable improvement in asset quality, risk control, profitability and managerial system through constant reform and development.

	5. City Commercial Banks

There are altogether 147 city commercial banks in China, including the Bank of Shanghai, Bank of Beijing, Tianjin City Commercial Bank, Shenzhen City Commercial Bank, Guangzhou City Commercial Bank, Jinan City Commercial Bank, Hangzhou City Commercial Bank, Nanjing City Commercial Bank, Ningbo City Commercial Bank, Wuxi City Commercial Bank, Wuhan City Commercial Bank and Xian City Commercial Bank etc. The Banks of Beijing and Shanghai are the largest city commercial banks.

According to latest statistics from the CBRC, by the end of 2010, the size of deposits and loans in city commercial banks reached RMB 6.1 trillion and RMB 3.6 trillion respectively, of which loans of small- and medium-enterprises comprise RMB 1.1 trillion. By the end of 2010, the outstanding non-performance loans of city commercial banks are RMB 32.56 billion, a drop of RMB 5.13 billion compared with the beginning of the year; the NPL ratio is 0.9 percent, 0.4 percentage points lower than the year beginning; the average capital adequacy ratio is 12.8 percent; liquidity ratio is generally in good situation and the leverage ratio is under control.

	6. Rural Commercial Banks and Rural Credit Cooperatives

Rural credit cooperatives, much closer to rural areas and farmers than any other banking institutions, have created large numbers of financial products which met the needs of rural economy and gained popularity among farmers. In the past 60 years, rural credit cooperative workers have been dedicated to serving agriculture, rural areas, and farmers. Nearly 80,000 branches, with 800,000 workers in counties and rural areas, served 0.8 billion rural residents, provided almost 80 percent of rural household loans and provided 80 percent financial coverage of the under-banked villages and towns in China.

In early 2011, the CBRC selected first five Rural Commercial Banks, i.e., Beijing Rural Commercial Bank, Shanghai Rural Commercial Bank, Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank, Chengdu Rural Commercial Bank, Zhangjiagang Rural Commercial Bank, to carry out the implementation of Basel II pilot. In July 2011, CBRC issued a "Rural Banking Institutions on the Implementation of Basel II Guidance." The implementation of Basel-oriented comprehensive risk management system for rural commercial banks is aimed at narrowing their gap with the other commercial banks, and to enhance their management level and the core competitiveness and to achieve sustainable development.

	7. Foreign Banks in China

At present, the scope of business and regulatory standards for foreign banks registered in China is consistent with that for the Chinese banks. A foreign bank registered in China can operate the foreign exchange and RMB business to enterprises and individuals, and comply with the same requirements as for a Chinese bank in terms of capital adequacy, credit concentration limits, savings and loan ratio, liquidity and other prudential provisions. Branches of foreign banks can conduct foreign exchange business and limited RMB business (only for foreigners in China); those foreign bank branches in China that were approved to conduct RMB business can absorb no less than RMB 100 million from the Chinese citizen for each deposit.

As of the end of September 2011, there were 39 foreign banks locally incorporated in China (consists of 247 branches and subsidiaries), 1 foreign financial company, 93 foreign bank branches and 207 representative offices, from 47 different countries. Over the past decade, the annual compound growth rate of foreign banks reached 19 percent, and the annual compound growth rate of their profits reached 26 percent.

The top five locally incorporated foreign banks' assets all exceed of RMB100 billion, which reach the level of national joint-stock commercial banks. To become a locally incorporated bank in China, a foreign bank needs to apply to the Chinese Banking Regulatory Commission, as well as gain approval from SAFE to bring working capital onshore. The process of doing so is frequently lengthy.

###Foreign-Exchange Controls	

Return to top

The PBOC and SAFE regulate the flow of foreign exchange in and out of the country, and set exchange rates through a "managed float" system. This system had been informally suspended in 2008 during the financial crisis, but was reinstituted June 18, 2010. Since then, the RMB has appreciated slightly against the USD. The PBOC authorized SAFE to regulate the inter-bank foreign exchange spot and forward markets. Starting from October 1, 2008, companies must report any overseas payment with a payment term over 90 days from the date shown on the import declaration form to SAFE
—no matter the amount—or they will not be allowed to arrange the overseas payment.

The accumulated reported overpayment amount in one calendar year can't exceed 10 percent of total importation amount of the last year.

On October 30, 2008, SAFE published a notice stipulating that from November 15, 2008, when an enterprise enters into a contract that contains a clause for the pre-payment for purchases, the enterprise must register (with SAFE) the contract within 15 working days after the contract is signed. The enterprise also must register the foreign exchange repayment within 15 days before the remittance. If the contract does not contain a pre-payment clause but a foreign exchange repayment is nevertheless required, the enterprise must register the contract and the foreign exchange prepayment within 15 working days before the remittance. As to the amount of the pre-payment, in principle, the enterprise pre-payment quota cannot exceed 10 percent of the total payment the enterprise has made for importation in the past 12 months. However, enterprises handling large, complete sets of equipment are exempt.

In April 2006, the PBOC made the following announcement regarding the partial adjustment of foreign exchange management policies to facilitate trade and investment:

1. In the case that enterprises open, change, or close foreign exchange accounts used for current account transactions, the administration mode is changed from being based on prior approval to direct processing of the applications by banks in accordance with foreign exchange management requirements and business practices while at the same time filing with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE). In addition, the foreign exchange account limits for current account transactions increased, and enterprises are allowed to purchase foreign exchange in advance to support authentic trade payments.

2. Documents required for sale and purchase of foreign exchange in the service trade are simplified with the examination and approval procedures relaxed.

3. Procedures related to sales of foreign exchange to resident individuals have been further trimmed and the limits on purchase of foreign exchange have been increased. Within such a quota, individuals can purchase foreign exchange from banks by presenting their identity documents and declaring the usage of foreign exchange; banks can sell foreign exchange exceeding the quota to individuals after verifying relevant documents to satisfy their real needs.

4. Expanding domestic banks' overseas foreign exchange investment services on behalf of their clients: Qualified banks are allowed to collect RMB funds of domestic institutions and individuals and convert into foreign exchange under a specified limit to invest in overseas fixed income products.

5. Qualified securities brokers such as fund management companies are allowed to collect self-owned foreign exchange of domestic institutions and individuals and use the funds for overseas portfolio investment including buying stocks.

6. Further expanding overseas securities investment by insurance institutions: Qualified insurance institutions are allowed to purchase foreign exchange for the purpose of investing in overseas fixed-income products and money market instruments. The amount of foreign exchange purchases is subject to a limit proportional to the total asset of an insurance institution.

###Project Financing	

Return to top

Sources of financial support available to U.S.-based exporters are:

**Export Credits**

The U.S. Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank), an independent agency of the U.S. Government, seeks to increase the competitive position of U.S.-based exporters in overseas markets by supporting the financing of U.S. export sales. All of Ex-Im Bank's financial products are available for Chinese buyers of U.S goods and services for the short, medium and long term. Generally speaking, Ex-Im Bank guarantees the repayment of loans or makes loans to international purchasers of U.S. goods and services. Ex-Im Bank also extends export credit insurance to overseas buyers and protects U.S. exporters against the risks of non-payment for political or commercial reasons. A reasonable assurance of repayment on every transaction financed must be provided.

Ex-Im Bank has signed a Framework Agreement (Agreement) with China's Ministry of Finance (MoF). According to this Agreement, the MoF will undertake to provide sovereign guarantee for imports from the U.S. for Chinese Government projects. In the past, Ex-Im Bank has worked with the Bank of China, China Construction Bank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the Agricultural Bank of China and the Bank of Communications. For private sector borrowers, Ex-Im Bank will accept financial statements audited according to acceptable accounting practices with auditor's notes and statements that adequately disclose financial conditions and afford a reasonable basis for reliance on the information provided. The terms and conditions of standard export financing are governed by the OECD Arrangement on export credits.

For Ex-Im Bank direct loans, lending rates (commercial interest reference rates or CIRR) are set monthly and are based on a spread above U.S. Treasuries. The Ex-Im Bank is also open for limited-recourse, project financing in China. Such a project is one in which anticipated cash flows can cover debt service repayment to lenders and payment of dividends to shareholders, and is without government guarantees. Loans under this program will be available to companies operating investment projects that require imports from the United States. Project financing is also available from the various multilateral financial institutions as described below.

The Chinese Government and Chinese borrowers periodically receive concessional financing terms and conditions designed to support a third country's exporters. The credits can be offered under government-to-government protocols related to a particular sector or project. U.S. firms, otherwise competitive on price and quality, often lose contracts because they are unable to compete with such concessional loans. Ex-Im Bank will, under certain circumstances, consider matching the specific financing terms of a competing government offer. Tied Aid matching funds must be approved by the Board of Directors of Ex-Im Bank.

For more information concerning Ex-Im Bank programs and application procedures contact James S. Lewis, Senior Business Development Officer of Global Business Development Division, Export-Import Bank of the United States (202) 565-3716 (telephone), [james.lewis@exim.gov](mailto:james.lewis@exim.gov) or (202) 565-3961 (fax). Exposure fee calculations and applications can be found on-line at [www.exim.gov](www.exim.gov).

**U.S. Trade and Development Agency**

The U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) advances economic development and U.S. commercial interests in developing- and middle-income countries. The agency funds various forms of technical assistance, feasibility studies, training, orientation visits and business workshops that support the development of a modern infrastructure and a fair and open trading environment.

USTDA's strategic use of foreign assistance funds to support sound investment policy and decision-making in host countries creates an enabling environment for trade, investment and sustainable economic development. Operating at the nexus of foreign policy and commerce, USTDA is uniquely positioned to work with U.S. firms and host countries in achieving the agency's trade and development goals. In carrying out its mission, USTDA gives emphasis to economic sectors that may benefit from U.S. exports of goods and services.

If a priority project exists for which you wish to consider U.S. sources of goods and services, please contact Mr. Geoff Jackson, Regional Director for Asia/Pacific, at USTDA's Arlington, VA office. Tel: (703) 875-4357, Fax: (703) 875-4009. In China, contact the USTDA Representative, Ms. Wan Xiaolei, at the U.S. Commercial Service, U.S. Embassy Beijing at Tel: (86 10) 8531-4534, Fax: (86 10) 8531-3701.

**Multilateral Agencies**

The World Bank, based in Washington, D.C., maintains a loan program in China. The World Bank's purpose is to help borrowers reduce poverty and improve living standards through sustainable growth and investment. China represents the World Bank's second largest commitment worldwide. The Bank's program policies in China continue to shift away from key infrastructure projects in transportation and energy toward environmental and agriculture support. The World Bank publishes bidding opportunities in the United Nations publication "Development Business," and can be viewed at: [http://www.devbusiness.com/about.asp](http://www.devbusiness.com/about.asp).

The World Bank conducts procurement by the rules of international competitive bidding through Chinese tendering organizations; nonetheless, successful bidding requires close coordination with the Chinese Government entity responsible for developing a project at the consulting stage when specifications are being established. The World Bank has a local office in China. The website can be viewed at: [www.worldbank.org/](www.worldbank.org/).

As a member of the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) has become increasingly active in China. It is mandated to assist joint venture and share holding companies with substantial non-state ownership to raise capital in the international markets. The IFC takes equity positions in these companies. The projects have anticipated cash flows that can cover repayments to lenders and dividends to shareholders. They do not enjoy a government guarantee. The IFC can be contacted through its Washington, D.C. Headquarters at (202) 473-0631 or its Beijing office, Tel: (86 10) 5860-3000, Fax: (86 10) 5860-3100. Website: [www.ifc.org](www.ifc.org).

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is a multilateral development finance institution, based in Manila, which is dedicated to reducing poverty in the Asia and Pacific region through inclusive economic growth, environmentally sustainable growth, and regional integration. Established in 1966, it is owned by 67 members. The ADB extends loans and provides technical assistance to its developing member countries for a broad range of development projects and programs. It also promotes and facilitates investment of public and private capital for economic and social development.

Once a project is initially approved by the ADB and the Chinese Government, it is included in a monthly publication called "ADB Business Opportunities" which is available by subscription from the Publications Unit, Information Office, ADB, P.O. Box 789, Manila, Philippines, Fax: (632) 632-5122 or 632-5841. The Commerce Department has established a Multilateral Development Bank Operations Office (Fax: (202) 273-0927), which publishes information to assist companies in winning such contracts. The ADB Resident Mission in China is located in Beijing. Tel: (86 10) 6642-6601, Fax: (86 10) 6642-6606. Website: [www.adb.org](www.adb.org).

###Web Resources	

Return to top

Export-Import Bank of the United States: [http://www.exim.gov](http://www.exim.gov)  
Country Limitation Schedule: [http://www.exim.gov/tools/country/country_limits.html](http://www.exim.gov/tools/country/country_limits.html)   
OPIC: [http://www.opic.gov](http://www.opic.gov)  
Trade and Development Agency: [http://www.tda.gov/](http://www.tda.gov/)   
SBA's Office of International Trade: [http://www.sba.gov/oit/](http://www.sba.gov/oit/)  
USDA Commodity Credit Corporation: [http://www.fsa.usda.gov/ccc/default.htm](http://www.fsa.usda.gov/ccc/default.htm)  
U.S. Agency for International Development: [http://www.usaid.gov](http://www.usaid.gov)  

Return to table of contents

