--- 
permalink: 'chap1.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap1">Chapter 1: Doing Business in China</h1>

* Market Overview
* Market Challenges
* Market Opportunities
* Market Entry Strategy

###Market Overview	

Return to top

China responded quickly to the global economic downturn in 2008, and as a result of a combination of monetary, fiscal, and bank-lending measures, China's GDP grew 9.2 percent in 2009, 10.3 percent in 2010, and 9.2 percent in 2011. GDP in 2012 is expected to grow 7.5 percent, with GDP projections for 2013 not expected to be far off that mark at between 8.3 percent and 8.8 percent. After a 2010 consumer price index (CPI) of 3.3 percent, China's inflation rate rose to 5.53 percent in 2011.

China's economy has seen enormous benefits from fixed asset investments, particularly in response to the financial crisis of 2008, which significantly reduced net exports. This investment-led growth, however, is widely perceived as non-sustainable and China's leadership addressed this concern in its 12th Five-Year Plan (12th 5YP), which came out in 2011. The plan aims to increase consumption activity from approximately 35 percent of GDP in 2010 to 50 percent by 2015. In comparison, about 70 percent of the United States' GDP is derived from consumption, whereas 63 percent of Brazil's GDP is driven by consumption. The rebalancing of China's economy should create opportunities for U.S. companies that provide consumer products and services. Environmental protection is also a high priority in the 12th FYP.

Despite China's gradually slowing GDP, U.S. exports to China increased to $100 billion in 2011, up from $91 billion in 2010. The U.S. trade deficit with China widened to $295 billion, up from 2010's deficit of $273 billion. China remains the United States' second largest trading partner after Canada. U.S. agricultural, fishery, and forestry exports to China from January to December 2011 reached a new high of $21.9 billion, up 13 percent from 2010. China is the second-largest U.S. overseas market for agriculture, fish, and forestry exports. Given China's rising incomes and demand for raw materials and finished foodstuffs, FAS forecasts that China's imports will continue to grow well into the future.

China's inbound FDI climbed nearly 16 percent in the first three quarters of 2011, reaching $95 billion, up from 15.9 percent in 2010. Similarly China's outbound FDI rose 14.1 percent, for a total of $46.3 billion.

China's rapid economic growth, especially in the urban areas, has led to a booming consumer market for high-end goods and services, including tourism and education. China will account for the consumption of about 20 percent of global luxury goods by 2015, or $27 billion. About 80 percent of people buying luxury items in China are 45 years or younger, whereas that percentage is only half for the United States. By 2020, China's middle class is expected to account for around 45 percent of the population, or approximately 700 million people.

Despite these remarkable changes, China is still a developing country with significant economic divisions between urban and rural areas, albeit one with vast potential. The number of migrant workers remains high. In 2011, the urban population exceeded that residing in rural areas for the first time, with 690.79 million urbanites (more than double the U.S. population) versus 656.56 million rural dwellers. As of 2011, the per-capita disposable income of urban residents was $3,454 and the per-capita disposable income of rural residents stood at $1,105.

###Market Challenges	

Return to top

In addition to large multinationals, many of which continue to earn impressive returns on their exports to and investments in China's market, American small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are also active here. The U.S. Department of Commerce's Commercial Service (CS) counsels American companies that in order to succeed in China's market, they must thoroughly investigate their specific market, take heed of product standards, and pre-qualify potential business partners. Stumbling blocks that foreign companies often run into while doing business in China can be grouped into the following broad categories.

* China often lacks predictability in its business environment. China's current legal and regulatory system can be opaque, inconsistent, and often arbitrary. Implementation of the law is inconsistent. Lack of effective protection of intellectual property rights is a particularly damaging issue for many American companies. Both those that already operate in China and those that have not yet entered the market have had their product IP stolen by Chinese companies.
* China has a government that, in some sectors of the economy, could be called mercantilist due to the significance of exports in the growth model. China has made significant progress toward a market-oriented economy, but parts of its bureaucracy still seek to protect local firms, especially state-owned enterprises, from imports, while encouraging exports.
* China retains much of the apparatus of a planned economy, with five-year plans setting economic goals, strategies, and targets. The State and the Communist Party directly manage the only legal labor union.

###Market Opportunities	

Return to top

* The growth of imports from the United States in many key sectors, such as energy, chemicals, transportation, medical equipment, construction, machinery and a range of services, suggests that China will remain an important and viable market for a wide range of products and services. With growing numbers of Chinese traveling abroad for education and leisure purposes, China's contribution to U.S. educational institutions and the tourism industry is increasingly important as well.
* China is a challenging market and requires a strong understanding of a firm's capabilities and in-depth knowledge of the market. Before making a decision to enter the Chinese market, potential exporters should first consider their own resources, past exporting experience, and have a willingness to commit a significant amount of time exploring opportunities for their products and services in China. CS has continued to emphasize that long-term relationships are key to finding a good partner in China. To maximize their contacts, companies should aim at forming a network of relationships with people at various levels across a broad range of organizations.

More detailed information can be found in Chapter 4 on specific industries with strong commercial prospects.

###Market Entry Strategy	

Return to top

CS welcomes contact with American companies that aim to initiate or expand exports to the Chinese market. Two of the primary objectives of U.S. policy with regard to China are (a) creating jobs and growing the American economy by increasing exports, and (b) ensuring our companies' ability to compete on a level playing field. A company should visit China in order to gain a better perspective and understanding of its potential as a market. Given the size of China and its rapidly changing market, a visit to China can provide great insight into the country's business climate and its people. Chinese company representatives respect "face-to-face" meetings, which can demonstrate a U.S. company's commitment to working in China. Prospective exporters should note that China has many different regions and that each province has unique economic and social characteristics.

U.S. companies commonly use agents in China to initially create these relationships. Localized agents possess the knowledge and contacts to better promote U.S. products and break down institutional, language, and cultural barriers. CS in China offers a wide array of services to assist U.S. exporters in finding Chinese partners through a network of five Commercial Service posts in China (Beijing, Shanghai, Shenyang, Guangzhou, Chengdu). They also have a partnership with the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) to provide services in 14 other major cities in China. U.S. companies are strongly encouraged to carefully choose potential Chinese partners and take the time to fully understand their distributors, customers, suppliers, and advisors.

[http://www.buyusa.gov/china/enassisting_us_exporters/areyouchinaready.asp.](http://www.buyusa.gov/china/enassisting_us_exporters/areyouchinaready.asp.)

Return to table of contents

