--- 
permalink: 'china/franchising.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
Some foreign companies are beginning to establish multiple retail outlets under a variety of creative arrangements, some of which function as franchises. Virtually all of the foreign companies who franchise in China either manage the operations themselves with Chinese partners (typically establishing a different partner in each major city or region) or sell to a master franchisee, which then leases out and oversees several franchise areas within a territory.

The 2011 revision of the "Catalogue Guiding Foreign Investment" removes companies involved in franchising from the 'restricted' category. As such investment is no longer listed elsewhere in the catalogue, this activity is considered 'permitted', meaning it has less stringent approval and partnership requirements. This movement, along with doctrine in the 12th Five-Year Plan (12th 5YP) to encourage more domestic consumption, should be considered when evaluating this business structure. Chinese consumers tend to be very brand conscious. Many urban consumers have traveled overseas and perceive value in branded products or services with foreign names.

It is important for entities considering a franchise model for expansion to consider steps to protect their brand and image. Prior to making substantive moves into the market, including negotiations with potential partners or franchisees, companies should consult with appropriate counsel regarding trademark registration or other concerns regarding intellectual property rights. Also, companies should evaluate after sale service and other considerations that may affect their brand image.

The regulations affecting franchisors and their operations are the "Regulations on the Administration of Commercial Franchises" (Franchise Regulations). The Franchise Regulations, together with the "Administrative Measures for the Information Disclosure of Commercial Franchises" (Information Disclosure Measures) and the "Administrative Measures for Archival Filing of Commercial Franchises" (Archival Filing Measures) have been issued by MOFCOM.

One key aspect to China's regulations governing franchising is the two-plus-one requirement. This requirement stipulates that franchisors own at least two directly operated outlets anywhere in the world before being allowed to operate a franchise model in China. One of the most difficult aspects of franchising in China is finding qualified franchisees. Franchising is still a relatively new concept in China, with many Chinese still unfamiliar with it. Moreover, collecting royalty payments and ensuring that the franchisee maintains the integrity of your brand are formidable challenges. Industry experts recommend that companies first open their own stores in China to show the market that the business concept works and to solidify its brand positioning before attempting a franchise model. Another suggested approach is to find a franchise partner for Mainland China in a more developed area such as Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore.
