--- 
permalink: 'china/project-financing.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
Sources of financial support available to U.S.-based exporters are:

**Export Credits**

The U.S. Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank), an independent agency of the U.S. Government, seeks to increase the competitive position of U.S.-based exporters in overseas markets by supporting the financing of U.S. export sales. All of Ex-Im Bank's financial products are available for Chinese buyers of U.S goods and services for the short, medium and long term. Generally speaking, Ex-Im Bank guarantees the repayment of loans or makes loans to international purchasers of U.S. goods and services. Ex-Im Bank also extends export credit insurance to overseas buyers and protects U.S. exporters against the risks of non-payment for political or commercial reasons. A reasonable assurance of repayment on every transaction financed must be provided.

Ex-Im Bank has signed a Framework Agreement (Agreement) with China's Ministry of Finance (MoF). According to this Agreement, the MoF will undertake to provide sovereign guarantee for imports from the U.S. for Chinese Government projects. In the past, Ex-Im Bank has worked with the Bank of China, China Construction Bank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the Agricultural Bank of China and the Bank of Communications. For private sector borrowers, Ex-Im Bank will accept financial statements audited according to acceptable accounting practices with auditor's notes and statements that adequately disclose financial conditions and afford a reasonable basis for reliance on the information provided. The terms and conditions of standard export financing are governed by the OECD Arrangement on export credits.

For Ex-Im Bank direct loans, lending rates (commercial interest reference rates or CIRR) are set monthly and are based on a spread above U.S. Treasuries. The Ex-Im Bank is also open for limited-recourse, project financing in China. Such a project is one in which anticipated cash flows can cover debt service repayment to lenders and payment of dividends to shareholders, and is without government guarantees. Loans under this program will be available to companies operating investment projects that require imports from the United States. Project financing is also available from the various multilateral financial institutions as described below.

The Chinese Government and Chinese borrowers periodically receive concessional financing terms and conditions designed to support a third country's exporters. The credits can be offered under government-to-government protocols related to a particular sector or project. U.S. firms, otherwise competitive on price and quality, often lose contracts because they are unable to compete with such concessional loans. Ex-Im Bank will, under certain circumstances, consider matching the specific financing terms of a competing government offer. Tied Aid matching funds must be approved by the Board of Directors of Ex-Im Bank.

For more information concerning Ex-Im Bank programs and application procedures contact James S. Lewis, Senior Business Development Officer of Global Business Development Division, Export-Import Bank of the United States (202) 565-3716 (telephone), [james.lewis@exim.gov](mailto:james.lewis@exim.gov) or (202) 565-3961 (fax). Exposure fee calculations and applications can be found on-line at [www.exim.gov](www.exim.gov).

**U.S. Trade and Development Agency**

The U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) advances economic development and U.S. commercial interests in developing- and middle-income countries. The agency funds various forms of technical assistance, feasibility studies, training, orientation visits and business workshops that support the development of a modern infrastructure and a fair and open trading environment.

USTDA's strategic use of foreign assistance funds to support sound investment policy and decision-making in host countries creates an enabling environment for trade, investment and sustainable economic development. Operating at the nexus of foreign policy and commerce, USTDA is uniquely positioned to work with U.S. firms and host countries in achieving the agency's trade and development goals. In carrying out its mission, USTDA gives emphasis to economic sectors that may benefit from U.S. exports of goods and services.

If a priority project exists for which you wish to consider U.S. sources of goods and services, please contact Mr. Geoff Jackson, Regional Director for Asia/Pacific, at USTDA's Arlington, VA office. Tel: (703) 875-4357, Fax: (703) 875-4009. In China, contact the USTDA Representative, Ms. Wan Xiaolei, at the U.S. Commercial Service, U.S. Embassy Beijing at Tel: (86 10) 8531-4534, Fax: (86 10) 8531-3701.

**Multilateral Agencies**

The World Bank, based in Washington, D.C., maintains a loan program in China. The World Bank's purpose is to help borrowers reduce poverty and improve living standards through sustainable growth and investment. China represents the World Bank's second largest commitment worldwide. The Bank's program policies in China continue to shift away from key infrastructure projects in transportation and energy toward environmental and agriculture support. The World Bank publishes bidding opportunities in the United Nations publication "Development Business," and can be viewed at: [http://www.devbusiness.com/about.asp](http://www.devbusiness.com/about.asp).

The World Bank conducts procurement by the rules of international competitive bidding through Chinese tendering organizations; nonetheless, successful bidding requires close coordination with the Chinese Government entity responsible for developing a project at the consulting stage when specifications are being established. The World Bank has a local office in China. The website can be viewed at: [www.worldbank.org/](www.worldbank.org/).

As a member of the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) has become increasingly active in China. It is mandated to assist joint venture and share holding companies with substantial non-state ownership to raise capital in the international markets. The IFC takes equity positions in these companies. The projects have anticipated cash flows that can cover repayments to lenders and dividends to shareholders. They do not enjoy a government guarantee. The IFC can be contacted through its Washington, D.C. Headquarters at (202) 473-0631 or its Beijing office, Tel: (86 10) 5860-3000, Fax: (86 10) 5860-3100. Website: [www.ifc.org](www.ifc.org).

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is a multilateral development finance institution, based in Manila, which is dedicated to reducing poverty in the Asia and Pacific region through inclusive economic growth, environmentally sustainable growth, and regional integration. Established in 1966, it is owned by 67 members. The ADB extends loans and provides technical assistance to its developing member countries for a broad range of development projects and programs. It also promotes and facilitates investment of public and private capital for economic and social development.

Once a project is initially approved by the ADB and the Chinese Government, it is included in a monthly publication called "ADB Business Opportunities" which is available by subscription from the Publications Unit, Information Office, ADB, P.O. Box 789, Manila, Philippines, Fax: (632) 632-5122 or 632-5841. The Commerce Department has established a Multilateral Development Bank Operations Office (Fax: (202) 273-0927), which publishes information to assist companies in winning such contracts. The ADB Resident Mission in China is located in Beijing. Tel: (86 10) 6642-6601, Fax: (86 10) 6642-6606. Website: [www.adb.org](www.adb.org).
