--- 
permalink: 'china/electronic-commerce.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
The Chinese Government has a fairly open attitude towards e-commerce in China. Both Chinese and international businesses are actively investing and establishing online sales channels. According to the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), the number of internet shoppers in China hit 145 million in 2011, ranking second in the world after the United States. The group also predicts that China will become the world's largest e-commerce market in 2015 with the number of internet shoppers hitting 329 million.

Just about everything is being purchased online. Examples include household goods, apparel, books, electronics, food items and luxury goods. China Internet Network Information Center (CINIC) estimates have total online sales in China exceeding RMB 523 billion for 2010, up 109 percent from 2009. Online sales now account for almost 3.3 percent of China's total retail sales.

While e-commerce in China has great potential, some major impediments exist. China remains a cash-based society, and the use of credit cards is limited. Local distribution channels are not well developed for delivery of items purchased over the internet. Online retailers have a reputation for poor after-sales service versus traditional retail stores. Consumers still have less confidence with the internet environment and limited awareness of the need for appropriate internet security software products.

Despite these impediments, several Chinese internet companies have been very successful in adapting to the local market and developing an effective cash-on-delivery or bank transfer payment model. Players such as [tmall.com](tmall.com) (part of [taobao.com](taobao.com) which is China's largest online retailer), [amazon.cn](amazon.cn), [dangdang.com](dangdang.com), and [360buy.com](360buy.com) are key online retailers. In fact, it is becoming common for Chinese consumers to shop online at one of these websites, and well-known Western brands are continuing to flock to these websites. However, U.S. companies wanting to sell products on Chinese e-commerce portals must establish a firm presence in China. A "presence" can be a subsidiary company, a JV, a wholly-owned entity or even a local distributor/agent. Few Chinese e-commerce portals are able or willing to deal with custom clearance and after-sales management for importing products. Chinese portals rely heavily on foreign companies to handle these issues themselves. Of course, this may change at some point in the years to come as Chinese portals expand domestically and globally and logistics companies work more closely with these portals.
