--- 
permalink: 'china/selling-to-the-government.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
In 2003, China implemented the Government Procurement Law (GPL) which generally reflects the United Nations Model Law on Procurement of Goods and the WTO's Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA). China's government procurement (GP) market was about $130 billion in 2010, according to China's Ministry of Finance (MOF), an increase of roughly 19 percent over 2009 figures. However, that number does not include most government-funded construction projects or public works, which are governed by the Tendering and Bidding Law (TBL) administered by the National Development and Reform Commission. While there are no official figures for projects covered by TBL, analysts estimate such procurement may exceed $200 billion.

In accordance with its commitment upon accession to the WTO, China committed to initiate negotiations for accession to GPA. The initial offer was submitted in 2007, a first revised offer was made in 2010, and a second revised offer was made in 2011. The U.S. and other GPA parties have noted that significant improvements will be needed in China's next offer. In particular, while the second offer covered a limited number of sub-central entities (provinces and municipalities), GPA parties such as the U.S. would prefer State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) that provide government functions be included as well.

The United States and China have restated their cooperation in order to accelerate China's accession to the WTO GPA. Moreover, in the 2010 Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT), China committed, for the purposes of government procurement, to treat products produced in China by foreign-invested enterprises (FIEs) the same as products produced in China by Chinese enterprises. Late in 2011, the Ministry of Finance announced that 30 percent of GP would be directed toward SMEs to strengthen that sector of the economy.

A "Buy-China" clause in China's government procurement law requires an additional approval process for imported goods or services. At the end of 2009, China issued a document implementing regulations for the GPL, proposing a domestic content requirement standard for government procurement as well as preferences for products with indigenous innovation (II). These II preferences have been eliminated as of July 2011, when the Ministry of Finance (MOF) issued regulations preventing the enforcement of these preferences. The United States Government continues to press for stronger measures to eliminate II preferences given to products deemed indigenously innovated, and as of December 1, 2011 sub-central governments were ordered to discontinue any II preferences through the State Council Office Circular [2011] Number 41. There are also additional opportunities for sales of products that are not available in China, cannot be purchased on reasonable commercial terms in China or are for use abroad.

China's evolving GP market is adopting new approaches to the procurement process. For example, electrical equipment bids are now accepted over the internet via Chinabidding.com. This portal provides a comprehensive listing of government procurement opportunities for this type of equipment all centralized in one location. The service is also available in English and requires registration in order to submit bids. Additional portals for other product categories may exist or be in development.

Direct sales to the Chinese military are also possible. However, restrictions on this type of business exist both in the United States and China. U.S. manufacturers should contact the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security (202-482-4811) and the U.S. State Department Office of Defense Trade Controls (202-663-2980) for guidance before selling goods or technology to the Chinese military.
