--- 
permalink: 'china/market-overview.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
China responded quickly to the global economic downturn in 2008, and as a result of a combination of monetary, fiscal, and bank-lending measures, China's GDP grew 9.2 percent in 2009, 10.3 percent in 2010, and 9.2 percent in 2011. GDP in 2012 is expected to grow 7.5 percent, with GDP projections for 2013 not expected to be far off that mark at between 8.3 percent and 8.8 percent. After a 2010 consumer price index (CPI) of 3.3 percent, China's inflation rate rose to 5.53 percent in 2011.

China's economy has seen enormous benefits from fixed asset investments, particularly in response to the financial crisis of 2008, which significantly reduced net exports. This investment-led growth, however, is widely perceived as non-sustainable and China's leadership addressed this concern in its 12th Five-Year Plan (12th 5YP), which came out in 2011. The plan aims to increase consumption activity from approximately 35 percent of GDP in 2010 to 50 percent by 2015. In comparison, about 70 percent of the United States' GDP is derived from consumption, whereas 63 percent of Brazil's GDP is driven by consumption. The rebalancing of China's economy should create opportunities for U.S. companies that provide consumer products and services. Environmental protection is also a high priority in the 12th FYP.

Despite China's gradually slowing GDP, U.S. exports to China increased to $100 billion in 2011, up from $91 billion in 2010. The U.S. trade deficit with China widened to $295 billion, up from 2010's deficit of $273 billion. China remains the United States' second largest trading partner after Canada. U.S. agricultural, fishery, and forestry exports to China from January to December 2011 reached a new high of $21.9 billion, up 13 percent from 2010. China is the second-largest U.S. overseas market for agriculture, fish, and forestry exports. Given China's rising incomes and demand for raw materials and finished foodstuffs, FAS forecasts that China's imports will continue to grow well into the future.

China's inbound FDI climbed nearly 16 percent in the first three quarters of 2011, reaching $95 billion, up from 15.9 percent in 2010. Similarly China's outbound FDI rose 14.1 percent, for a total of $46.3 billion.

China's rapid economic growth, especially in the urban areas, has led to a booming consumer market for high-end goods and services, including tourism and education. China will account for the consumption of about 20 percent of global luxury goods by 2015, or $27 billion. About 80 percent of people buying luxury items in China are 45 years or younger, whereas that percentage is only half for the United States. By 2020, China's middle class is expected to account for around 45 percent of the population, or approximately 700 million people.

Despite these remarkable changes, China is still a developing country with significant economic divisions between urban and rural areas, albeit one with vast potential. The number of migrant workers remains high. In 2011, the urban population exceeded that residing in rural areas for the first time, with 690.79 million urbanites (more than double the U.S. population) versus 656.56 million rural dwellers. As of 2011, the per-capita disposable income of urban residents was $3,454 and the per-capita disposable income of rural residents stood at $1,105.
