--- 
permalink: 'chap8.html' 
published: true 
---
<h1 id="chap8">Chapter 8: Business Travel</h1>

* Business Customs
* Travel Advisory
* Visa Requirements
* Telecommunications
* Transportation
* Language
* Health
* Local Time, Business Hours and Holidays
* Temporary Entry of Materials and Personal Belongings
* Web Resources

###Business Customs	

Return to top

Business/name cards are ubiquitous in Chinese business and will almost always be exchanged upon meeting a stranger in such a context. The card should be held in both hands when offered to the other person: offering it with one hand is considered ill mannered. When receiving a card, use two hands and study it. Acknowledge it with thanks and initiate conversation, when feasible. Use an interpreter, if available, to make sure you are communicating correctly and/or understanding the other person correctly.

Don't miss an opportunity to develop an appropriate new business contact, as relationships, called guanxi in Mandarin, remain very important in China.

###Travel Advisory	

Return to top

The threat level for all China posts is considered low for crime and medium for terrorism.

**For the most up-to-date information related to traveling and living in China, please see the Department of State’s Country Specific Information on China at [http://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1089.html](http://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1089.html).**

China experiences a moderate rate of crime. **To reach the police in China, dial “110,” the local equivalent of 911. **Recent assaults at nightclubs and bars highlight the need to check local expatriate publications when planning outings. Pickpockets are particularly active in crowded markets and foreigners are often sought out as primary targets. Foreigners have often had bags or backpacks stolen when they set them down momentarily in a shop or put them on a chair in a restaurant; avoid keeping your passport in a bag. Thefts from taxis have also become more common and travelers are especially urged to hold purses or computer bags and to be sure drivers are not given the opportunity to leave with the traveler's luggage in the car or trunk. Petty theft from hotel rooms is uncommon but visitors are advised not to leave valuables lying loose or unattended in their rooms. Use safe deposit boxes or safes in rooms, or at the front desk, where provided. Use caution if approached by individuals purporting to be English-language or art students, and avoid sellers of pirated or fake products. These transactions are illegal and should be avoided.

Americans arriving without valid passports and Chinese visas are not permitted to enter China and may also be subject to fines. Visitors traveling to China on a single entry visa should be reminded that trips to Hong Kong or Macau Special Administrative Regions are treated as a visit outside Mainland China. If the traveler tries to return to Mainland China after a visit to one of these two destinations but only has a single entry visa, they will be denied entry. Visitors facing this dilemma should apply for a new visa at the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the China Travel Service in Hong Kong to re-enter China. Transit through China without a visa is permitted in some circumstances but to avoid problems, check your itinerary and the most recent Chinese visa regulations to be sure your trip meets the regulations. Recent travel advisories and other useful information can be found on the U.S. State Department's travel website: [http://travel.state.gov/](http://travel.state.gov/).

**If traveling to China, remember to connect with the U.S. Embassy and Consulates through the Department of State’s Smart Traveler Enrollment Program: [https://travelregistration.state.gov/ibrs/ui/](https://travelregistration.state.gov/ibrs/ui/).**

###Visa Requirements	

Return to top

A valid passport and visa are required to enter China. A visa must be obtained from Chinese Embassies and Consulates before traveling to China; ask for a one-year, multiple-entry visa. Americans arriving without valid passports and the appropriate Chinese visa are not permitted to enter and can be subject to a fine and immediate deportation at the traveler's expense. Travelers should not rely on Chinese host organizations claiming to be able to arrange a visa upon arrival. Chinese authorities have recently tightened their visa issuance policy, in some cases requiring personal interviews of American citizens and regularly issuing one or two entry visas valid for short periods only.** The standard visa reciprocity is multiple entry/12 months and visitors should request a Chinese visa of that validity to avoid problems.**

Please note that visas are required to transit China in most circumstances. Persons transiting China on the way to and from Mongolia or North Korea or who plan to re-enter from the Hong Kong or Macau Special Administrative Regions should be especially sure to obtain visas allowing multiple entries.

For information about visa requirements and other entry requirements and restricted areas, travelers should consult the Embassy of the People's Republic of China (PRC) at 2300 Connecticut Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20008, or telephone (202) 328-2500, 2501 or 2502. For a list of services and frequently asked visa questions and answers, travelers can view the Chinese Embassy's website at: [http://www.china-embassy.org/eng/](http://www.china-embassy.org/eng/).

The Chinese Embassy's visa section may be reached by e-mail at [chnvisa@bellatlantic.net](mailto:chnvisa@bellatlantic.net). The service hotline is (202) 337-1956 and the fax number is (202) 588-9760. There are Chinese Consulates General in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco.

Americans traveling in Asia have been able to obtain visas to enter China from the Chinese visa office in Hong Kong and the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Seoul, South Korea, but Americans resident in the United States should apply for a visa before leaving, if possible.

**Americans who overstay or otherwise violate the terms of their Chinese visas will be subject to a RMB 500 fine per day up to a maximum of RMB 5,000. **Although you can expect processing delays and receive a warning, you are not necessarily denied a new visa or have further action taken against you. In extreme cases, you could be expelled from the country and prohibited re-entry for 5 years. Travelers should note that international flights departing China are routinely overbooked. Travelers are advised to reconfirm departure reservations and check in early at the airport. **Note that if you lose your passport or become the victim of passport theft, you will not only need to obtain a new U.S. passport, but you will need to obtain a replacement visa before you will be able to depart China. This process can take as long as one week.**

In an effort to prevent international child abduction, many governments have initiated new procedures at entry/exit points. These often include requiring documentary evidence of relationship and permission for the child's travel from the parent(s) or legal guardian if they are not present. Having such documentation on hand, even if not required, may facilitate entry/departure.

U.S. companies that require travel of foreign businesspeople to the United States should be advised that, especially during the summer and during other busy travel times, there may be a significant wait time for applicants to schedule a visa interview and a small percentage of Chinese visa applicants, particularly those in scientific and technical fields, require additional processing that may take three weeks or more to complete. Chinese companies also usually require invitation letters and have internal travel approval process that may take several weeks. U.S. companies should send invitation letters to Chinese business contacts as early as possible. Visa applicants should go to the following links.

State Department Visa Website: [http://travel.state.gov/visa/index.html](http://travel.state.gov/visa/index.html)  
United States Visas.gov: [http://www.unitedstatesvisas.gov/](http://www.unitedstatesvisas.gov/)  
State Department Visa Website: [http://travel.state.gov/visa/visa_1750.html](http://travel.state.gov/visa/visa_1750.html)  


###Telecommunications	

Return to top

International and domestic phone calls can be made with little difficulty in China, particularly in the major cities. International and domestic calls can typically be made directly from hotel rooms and phone cards and pre-paid cellular phone chips are widely available. Phones can be rented at the airport arrival terminals for short term use.

City Codes

Cities shown are where the U.S. Government has an Embassy or Consulate. For calls made within China, add a "0" before the city code. For calls made to China, dial "86" before the city code. When calling China from the United States, add "011" before the country code.

Beijing: 10  
Chengdu: 28  
Guangzhou: 20  
Shanghai: 21  
Shenyang: 24  
Wuhan: 27  
Hong Kong: 852  

Telephone Operators
Local Directory Assistance (some English): 114  
International Directory Assistance (some English): 115  
Domestic Long Distance Operator (some English): 113, 173  

Other Numbers (Emergencies)

U.S. Embassy: 011-8610-8531-4000. Within Beijing, dial 8531-4000 (American Citizen Services) and listen for the menu options. For after-hours emergencies only, dial 8531-3000, and ask the operator or the Marine Guard receiving the call to let you speak to the Duty Officer.

Additional important information, including travel advisories, can be found at the U.S. Embassy's U.S. Citizen Service's website: [http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/country_info.html](http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn/country_info.html)

Emergency/Fire (Chinese): 119  
Police (Chinese): 110  

###Transportation	

Return to top

**Taxis**

Metered taxis are plentiful and can be hailed along most main streets, especially near hotels and major sightseeing attractions. Taxis are a convenient and fairly inexpensive means of transport, especially if you have your destination address written in Chinese. Transportation is easily arranged at the front door of the hotel. Concierge desks have cards with the name and address of the hotel in Chinese and can assist with giving instructions to the taxi driver. Avoid taking unregistered black taxis.

Beijing Taxi (some drivers speak English) 010-8456-6466  
Capital Taxi (some drivers speak English) 800-610-5678/010-6406-5088  

Airlines
Add "010" before the number, except 400 or 800 calls, if outside Beijing

Cathay Pacific/Dragon Air 400-888-6628/ (86 10) 6453-2566 (airport office)   
Japan Airlines 400-888-0808  
Korean Airlines 400-658-8888 (press "3" for English)  
Malaysian Airlines (86 10) 6505-2681 (press "2" for English)/ 10-6459-0206 (airport)  
Delta/Northwest 400-814-0081 (press "3" English)  
Qantas 800-819-0089 (press "1" for English)/ (86 10) 6567-9006 (press "101" for English)  
Singapore Airlines (86 10) 6505-2233 (press "2" for English)  
Thai Airways (86 10) 8515-0088 (press "0" for English)  
United 800-810-8282 (press "1" for English)  
Vietnam Airlines (86 10) 8454-1196  

Be sure to confirm which airport/terminal your departure flight will use in Beijing (Terminal 2 or Terminal 3) or in Shanghai (Hongqiao or Pudong) as they are miles apart.

###Language	

Return to top

Mandarin Chinese is the national language, spoken by over 70 percent of Chinese. Other than Mandarin there are six major Chinese dialects, as well as numerous local dialects. Pinyin refers to the standardized Romanization system used to represent the pronunciation of Chinese characters; it is used throughout China on signs. Chinese characters are all written the same, but are pronounced differently in each dialect. China employs simplified characters but most areas outside the Mainland, including Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan and Southeast Asia, use traditional characters. For business purposes it is important to provide contacts with bilingual business cards, usually with Chinese characters on one side, English on the other. Titles and company names should be translated with care into Chinese to ensure a positive meaning.

###Health	

Return to top

Western-style medical facilities with international staffs are available in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and a few other large cities. Many other hospitals in major Chinese cities have so-called VIP wards (gaogan bingfang). These feature reasonably up-to-date medical technology and physicians who are both knowledgeable and skilled. Most VIP wards also provide medical services to foreigners and have English-speaking doctors and nurses. Most hospitals in China will not accept medical insurance from the United States, with the exception of the following hospitals, which are on the BlueCross BlueShield's worldwide network providers - overseas network hospitals' list ([http://www.fepblue.org/wasite/wabenefits/wa-benefitsoverseas04.html](http://www.fepblue.org/wasite/wabenefits/wa-benefitsoverseas04.html)): Beijing United Family Hospital, Beijing Friendship Hospital, International Medical Center in Beijing, and Peking Union Medical Center. Travelers will be asked to post a deposit prior to admission to cover the expected cost of treatment. Hospitals in major cities may accept credit cards for payment. Even in the VIP/Foreigner wards of major hospitals, however, American patients have frequently encountered difficulty due to language, cultural, and regulatory differences. Physicians and hospitals have sometimes refused to supply American patients with complete copies of their Chinese hospital medical records, including laboratory test results, scans, and x-rays. All Americans traveling to China are strongly encouraged to buy foreign medical care and medical evacuation insurance prior to arrival. Travelers who want a list of medical facilities in China that will treat foreigners can access that information at the Embassy's website. Information for consular districts can be accessed by clicking "locations" in the upper right-hand corner of this site.

Ambulances do not carry sophisticated medical equipment, and ambulance personnel generally have little or no medical training. Therefore, injured or seriously ill Americans may be required to take taxis or other immediately available vehicles to the nearest major hospital rather than waiting for ambulances to arrive. In rural areas, only rudimentary medical facilities are generally available. Rural clinics are often reluctant to accept responsibility for treating foreigners, even in emergency situations.

####Medical Insurance

The Department of State strongly urges Americans to consult with their medical insurance company prior to traveling abroad to confirm whether their policy applies overseas and if it will cover emergency expenses such as a medical evacuation. U.S. medical insurance plans seldom cover health costs incurred outside the United States unless on a reimbursable basis or if supplemental coverage is purchased. Furthermore, U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not provide payment for any medical services outside the United States. However, many travel agents and private companies offer insurance plans that will cover health care expenses incurred overseas, including emergency services such as medical evacuations.

When making a decision regarding health insurance, Americans should consider that many foreign doctors and hospitals require payment in cash prior to providing service and that a medical evacuation to the U.S., or even to Hong Kong, may cost well in excess of USD 100,000. Uninsured travelers who require medical care overseas often face extreme difficulties. When consulting with your insurer prior to your trip, ascertain whether payment will be made to the overseas healthcare provider or if you will be reimbursed later for expenses you incur. Some insurance policies also include coverage for psychiatric treatment and for disposition of remains in the event of death.

Two private emergency medical assistance firms, SOS International, Ltd., and Medex Assistance Corporation, offer medical insurance policies designed for travelers. Both of these companies have staff in China who can assist with a medical emergency.

SOS International, Ltd.

Beijing International SOS Clinic  
Suite 105, Wing 1, Kunsha Building  
No 16 Xinyuanli, Chaoyang District  
Beijing 100027, China  
Tel (86 10) 6462-9112  
Fax (86 10) 6462-9188  
Website: [http://www.internationalsos.com/en/asia-pacific_china.htm](http://www.internationalsos.com/en/asia-pacific_china.htm)  

MEDEX Assistance Corporation 871 Poly Plaza Beijing 100027  
Toll Free Number from China to the United States: 10811-800-527-0218  
Email: [info@medexassist.com](mailto:info@medexassist.com) (Baltimore, Maryland)  
U.S. telephone: 1-800-537-2029 or 1-410-453-6300 (24 hours)  
Emergencies (members only): 1-800-527-0218 or 1-410-453-6330 
Website: [http://www.medexassist.com/](http://www.medexassist.com/)

Medex members calling with a medical emergency should call Medex-Emergency in China at telephone (86-10) 6595-8510.

Other Evacuation Insurance Options:

Heathrow Air Ambulance Heathrow is an air evacuation service with offices in the United States and England. Travelers can pre-arrange air evacuation insurance and other emergency travel assistance. This service also has a business plan to assist foreigners who lack travel insurance. Heathrow Air Ambulance Service, 15554 FM, Suite 195 Houston, TX. 77095-2704.  
Office telephone: 1-800-513-5192. Office fax: 1-832-934-2395. E-mail: [info@heathrowairambulance.com](info@heathrowairambulance.com)

Useful information on medical emergencies abroad, including overseas insurance programs, is provided in the Department of State's Bureau of Consular Affairs brochure, Medical Information for Americans Traveling Abroad, available via [http://travel.state.gov/travel/tips/tips_1232.html#health](http://travel.state.gov/travel/tips/tips_1232.html#health).

####Other Health Information

Most roads and towns in Tibet, Qinghai, parts of Xinjiang, and western Sichuan are situated at altitudes over 10,000 feet. Travelers in these areas should seek medical advice in advance of travel, allow time for acclimatization to the high altitude, and remain alert to signs of altitude sickness. Reuse or poor sterilization practices are problems in China, contributing to transmission of diseases such as hepatitis, which is endemic in China. In order to protect themselves from blood and other tissue borne disease such as hepatitis and HIV, travelers should always ask doctors and dentists to use sterilized equipment and be prepared to pay for new syringe needles in hospitals or clinics. Tuberculosis is endemic in China. Air pollution is also a significant problem throughout China. Travelers should consult their doctor prior to travel and consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on them. Travelers are advised to consult the CDC's traveler's health website at: [http://www.cdc.gov/travel/eastasia.htm](http://www.cdc.gov/travel/eastasia.htm) prior to departing for China.

###Local Time, Business Hours, and Holidays	

Return to top

Time throughout China is set to Beijing time, which is eight hours ahead of GMT/UTC. When it's noon in Beijing it's also noon in far-off Lhasa, Urumqi, and all other parts of the country. However, western China does follow a later work schedule to coincide with daylight hours.

Business Hours

China officially has a five-day work week although some businesses stretch to six days. Offices and government departments are normally open Monday to Friday between 8:30 AM and 5 PM, with some closing for one or two hours in the middle of the day.

2012 Holiday Schedule

Mission China is scheduled to be closed on the following dates in observance of the 2012 official American and Chinese holidays:

**\*\*	January 1	Sun	New Year’s Day**  
**\*\*\*	January 2	Monday	New Year’s Day**  
**\*	January 16	Monday	Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Birthday**  
**\*\*	January 22-25	Sun-Wed	Chinese (Lunar) New Year**  
**\*	February 20	Monday	Presidents’ Day**  
**\*\*	April 4	Wednesday	Tomb Sweeping Day**  
**\*\*	May 1	Tuesday	International Labor Day**  
**\*	May 28	Monday	Memorial Day**  
**\*\*	June 23-25	Sat-Mon	Dragon Boat Festival**  
**\*	July 4	Wednesday	Independence Day**  
**\*	September 3	Monday	Labor Day**  
**\*\*	Sep 30-Oct 4	Sun-Thu	Mid-Autumn Festival & Chinese National Day**  
**\*	October 8	Monday	Columbus Day**  
**\*	November 12	Monday	Veteran’s Day**  
**\*	November 22	Thursday	Thanksgiving Day**  
**\*	December 25	Tuesday	Christmas Day**

	*Americans Holidays
	**Chinese Holidays
	***Chinese and American Holidays

Please note that this schedule is subject to change if the PRC government makes any adjustments to CY 2012 legally-recognized Chinese holidays.

2012 Chinese Government Holidays:

New Year  Jan. 1, 2, 3, three days; Work: Dec.31 Sat.  
Lunar New Year  Jan. 22-28, seven days; Work:  Jan.21 Sat. and Jan.29 Sun.  
Tomb Sweeping Day  April 2, 3, 4, three days; Work: March 31 Sat and April.1 Sun.  
Labor’s Day  April 29, 30, May 1, three days; Work: April 28 Sat.  
Dragon Boat Day  June 22, 23, 24, three days.  
Mid-Autumn Festival, Chinese National Day  Sep.30 – Oct.7, eight days; Work: Sep.29 Sat.  

###Temporary Entry of Materials and Personal Belongings	

Return to top

Although travelers will notice that Customs officials at the airports do not routinely inspect baggage upon arrival, random searches are possible. China allows an individual to import 400 cigarettes (600, if you are staying more than six months), two bottles of wine or spirits (verify current allowable quantity at the duty free shop before you purchase), and a reasonable amount of perfume. Cash amounts exceeding USD 6,000 (or equivalent in other foreign currency) should be declared.

Chinese law prohibits the import of cold cuts and fresh fruit. There are limits on other items, such as herbal medicine that can be taken out of the country. Rare animals and plants cannot be exported. Cultural relics, handicrafts, gold and silver ornaments, and jewelry purchased in China have to be shown to customs upon leaving China. If these items are deemed to be "cultural treasures" they will be confiscated. All bags are X-rayed.

It is illegal to import any printed material, film, and tapes, etc. that are "detrimental to China's political, economic, cultural, or ethical interests." As with tapes, books or DVDs that contain state secrets or are otherwise prohibited for export" can be seized on departing China.

###Web Resources	

Return to top

U.S. Embassy Beijing: [http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn](http://beijing.usembassy-china.org.cn)  
U.S. Commercial Service, China: [http://www.buyusa.gov/china/en](http://www.buyusa.gov/china/en)  
China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT): [www.ccpit.org](www.ccpit.org)  
National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC): [http://en.ndrc.gov.cn/](http://en.ndrc.gov.cn/) (English)  
Chinese Ministry of Commerce: [http://english.mofcom.gov.cn/](http://english.mofcom.gov.cn/)  
American Chamber of Commerce China (Amcham): [http://www.amchamchina.org](http://www.amchamchina.org)  
U.S.-China Business Council: [http://www.uschina.org](http://www.uschina.org)  
Chinese Government: [http://english.gov.cn](http://english.gov.cn)  

Return to table of contents


