--- 
permalink: 'china/us-export-controls.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
The United States imposes export controls to protect national security interests and promote foreign policy objectives. The United States also participates in various multilateral control regimes to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) administers U.S. laws, regulations and policies governing the export and re-export of sensitive dual-use controlled commodities, software, and technologies ("items"). BIS implements U.S. export controls on all items falling under the jurisdiction of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) including dual-use items. "Dual-use" refers to items or technologies that have both civilian commercial and military applications. Additional information on export controls and BIS, including the EAR, can be found online at: [www.bis.doc.gov](www.bis.doc.gov).

The primary goal of BIS is to protect U.S. national security interests and promote foreign policy objectives. BIS also enforces anti-boycott laws and coordinates with U.S. agencies and other countries on export control, nonproliferation and strategic trade issues. BIS's Export Administration reviews license applications for exports, re-exports and deemed exports (technology transfers to foreign nationals in the United States) subject to the EAR. Through its Office of Exporter Services, Export Administration provides information on BIS programs, offers seminars on complying with the EAR, provides guidance on licensing requirements and procedures, and presents an annual Update Conference as an outreach program to industry.

BIS's Office of Export Enforcement is staffed with criminal investigators who investigate allegations of illegal exports of dual-use items. BIS posts Export Control Officers as attaches in Beijing, Hong Kong, New Delhi, Moscow, Singapore, and the United Arab Emirates.

Under the EAR, a license is required to export or re-export certain dual-use items to end-users in China. In some cases, an end-use check, which can take the form of either a Pre-License Check (PLC) or Post-Shipment Verification (PSV), is also required. During the 2004 Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT), BIS signed an Exchange of Letters on End-Use Visit Understanding (EUVU) with the Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM). This Exchange of Letters established procedures for arranging end-use visits in China. Implementation of the EUVU helps ensure that the intended recipients of U.S. exports of controlled dual-use items are using these items for their intended purposes and facilitates licensing determinations. U.S. exporters are required to obtain an End-User/End-Use Statement from MOFCOM for licensed transactions valued over $50,000 as part of the license application process. In certain circumstances, an End-user/End-Use Statement may be required for transactions of a lower dollar value.

In June 2007, the U.S. Government published a regulation introducing changes to export control policy towards China, known as the "China Rule." This regulation states that the United States seeks to facilitate exports to legitimate civilian end-users to China, while preventing exports that would enhance China's military capability. BIS also established a new Validated End-User (VEU) program, which allows qualified end-users who have an established track record of engaging in only civil activities to receive exports of specified items without individual licenses. Changes to the VEU program, including additions and deletions of VEU-authorized companies, are published in the Federal Register. Application for VEU is voluntary and can be made by an end-user in China or by a U.S. exporter on behalf of a customer in China. Interested companies can apply by submitting a request for an advisory opinion to BIS.

U.S. exporters can obtain information about how dual-use export license requirements may apply to the sale of their goods to China by submitting a commodity classification request to BIS. The commodity classification provides information on Export Control

Classification Number of the item as well as any applicable restrictions on exporting that item. Exporters also can request a written advisory opinion from BIS concerning how the regulations apply. Information on commodity classifications, advisory opinions, commodity jurisdiction, and export licenses can be obtained through the BIS website at [www.bis.doc.gov](www.bis.doc.gov) or by contacting the Office of Exporter Services:

Washington, D.C.  Tel: (202) 482-4811  Fax: (202) 482-3322  

Western Regional Office	 Tel: (949) 660-0144  Fax: (949) 660-9347  

Information about U.S. export controls on dual-use items can be obtained from BIS Export Control Officers at the Foreign Commercial Service, U.S. Embassy Beijing, Tel: (86 10) 8531-3301/4484 or Fax: (86 10) 8529-6558.

In 1990, the U.S. Congress passed P.L. 101-246, commonly referred to as the "Tiananmen Sanctions," which restrict the export and re-export of crime control and crime detection equipment and instruments listed in the EAR to China. The Tiananmen Sanctions also prohibit the export to China of defense articles and defense services subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). These restrictions apply regardless of the end-user in China.

In 1999, the U.S. Congress passed P.L. 105-261, which permits the export to China of missile-related equipment or technology only if the President first certifies to Congress that the specific proposed export is not detrimental to the United States space launch industry and the equipment or technology to be exported, including any indirect technical benefit, will not measurably improve China's missile or space launch capabilities.

Exporters are urged to check lists identifying specific end-users (persons, companies and entities) that are under U.S. Government sanctions or for whom export licenses may be required. Information on these lists, which include the Entity List, Denied Persons List, Specially Designated Nationals List, and Debarred List, is available on the BIS website at: [http://www.bis.doc.gov/complianceandenforcement/liststocheck.htm](http://www.bis.doc.gov/complianceandenforcement/liststocheck.htm). A consolidation of all U.S. Government sanctions lists can be found at: [http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp](http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp). U.S. exporters who engage in transactions with listed parties may themselves become subject to administrative and/or criminal penalties.

Additionally, the U.S. Department of State also imposes sanctions relating to proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and arms control. On June 28, 2005, President Bush signed Executive Order 13382, which amended E.O. 12938 by providing sanctions against entities that finance and support proliferation activities. Chinese entities have been sanctioned under this Executive Order, as well as under the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 (P.L. 106-178), Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992, and Executive Order 12938, as amended (E.O. 13094, E.O. 13882). Additional information on these sanctions can be found on the State Department website at: [http://www.state.gov/t/isn/c15231.htm](http://www.state.gov/t/isn/c15231.htm).

Other agencies also regulate exports of more specialized items. For example, the U.S. Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) administers U.S. export control regulations covering defense articles and services that appear on the U.S. Munitions List (USML), including satellites and related technologies. Information on U.S. Department of State export licensing procedures, the ITAR, and the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) can be found at: [http://www.pmddtc.state.gov/](http://www.pmddtc.state.gov/) or at Tel: (202) 663-1282. The point of contact for U.S. Department of State licensing issues at the U.S. Embassy Beijing is the Economic Section, Tel: (86 10) 8531-3000, Fax: (86 10) 8531-4949.
