--- 
permalink: 'china/standards-product-certification.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
The China Compulsory Certification (CCC) mark is China's national safety and quality mark. The mark is required for 23 categories including 254 products, ranging from electrical fuses to toaster ovens to automobile parts to information technology equipment. About 20 percent of U.S. exports to China are on the product list. If an exporter's product is on the CCC mark list, it cannot enter China until CCC registration has been obtained, and the mark physically applied to individual products as an imprint or label. Similarly, domestic products cannot be sold in China without obtaining registration and applying the mark on individual products. The CCC mark system is administered by CNCA.

Obtaining the CCC Mark involves an application process to authorized Chinese certification bodies. At present, no foreign entities have been certified to participate in this process. The application process can take several months, and can cost upward from $4,500 in fees. The process includes sending testing samples to a Chinese laboratory and testing in those labs to ensure the products meet safety and/or electrical standards. A factory inspection of the applicant's factories, to determine whether the product line matches the samples tested in China, is also required. Finally, Chinese testing authorities approve the design and application of the CCC logo on the applicant's products. Some companies, especially those with a presence in China and with a dedicated certification/standards staff, are able to manage the application process in-house. Other exporters can tap the expertise of standards consultants based both in the U.S. and in China who can provide application management services and handle all aspects of the application process.

The U.S. Department of Commerce maintains a comprehensive CCC mark website to help U.S. exporters determine whether they need the CCC mark and how to apply: [http://www.mac.doc.gov/china/cccguide.htm](http://www.mac.doc.gov/china/cccguide.htm). The Department of Commerce also sponsors CCC mark seminars in cities across the United States. Contact the Office of Market Access and Compliance, China Economic Area of the Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration, or visit its website for more information.

Though the CCC mark is China's most widely required product certification mark, other product certification requirements exist. These include requirements for boilers and pressure vessels, under a product certification regime administered by the Special Equipment Licensing Office of AQSIQ. Another product certification scheme is required for certain measurement equipment, known as Certificate of Pattern Approval, which is also administered by AQSIQ.
