--- 
permalink: 'colombia/defense-opportunities.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
<div id="defense-opportunities">
Military equipment trends have remained the same post-Plan Colombia, since the government continues to support drug interdiction and eradication efforts. Due to the significant improvement of national security, the Colombian Air Force has been more involved with military and civilian rescue operations. In 2010 the Air Force created a new rescue unit and continues to purchase rescue equipment and life support systems. The National Police is expanding its activity in civilian and urban surveillance, adapting its force and upgrading its equipment to this environment. Recent navy purchases have shown the government’s interest to increase the guarding of the Caribbean coast, especially around the islands of San Andres and Providencia, an area in which there is a territorial dispute between Colombia and Nicaragua. There is also interest from the Ministry of Defense to purchase close to 20 fighter jets, some of the possible candidates may include the F-16 and F-18 Hornet. However, this has been put on hold until further notice in 2014.

In 1990, the USG provided 18 UH- 1N helicopters, buying 36 more over the years. In 2010, the Colombian military had 280 helicopters and 200 fixed-wing aircraft with no major new purchases projected until 2015 with the exception of possible interest to purchase helicopters with higher capacity to transport troops and equipment. Due to recent aircraft acquisitions, there are significant opportunities for training, parts and maintenance for these aircraft, especially for Blackhawk rotor blades repair services and erosion-resistant coating systems. Other opportunities include: parameter security protection systems (convoy security, security walls and fences, and video surveillance systems), safety, survival accessories, search and rescue equipment, protective clothing, emergency medical equipment, and trauma-life support systems.

The security forces number about 435,000 uniformed personnel: 285,000 in the military and 150,000 in the police. From 2012 to 2015, key needs will be armament and personal arms (up to US$ 1 million a year), night vision goggles (up to US$ 1 million a year), anti-ballistic missiles (ABM) (up U$D1 million a year), survival equipment and kits

(up to US$ 400,000 a year), flight suits, footwear (up to US$ 200,000 a year), personal arms (M4 rifles, M9 pistols), grenades, binoculars, and medical equipment. The Colombian army is looking into upgrading its equipment and uniforms, with engineered textile solutions, smart textile materials, as well as integrated communication aircraft helmets.

On May 15, 2012 the FTA agreement between the United States and Colombia entered into effect. 80 percent of U.S. exports of consumer and industrial products to Colombia are duty-free immediately upon entry into force, with remaining tariffs phased out over ten years. Other provisions include strong protection for U.S. investors (legal stability), expanded access to service markets, greater intellectual property rights protection, market access for remanufactured goods, increased transparency and improved dispute settlement mechanisms (arbitration). The majority of defense and military equipment have no tariffs since the implementation of the FTA. Prior to the agreement tariffs ranged between 5 and 20 percent.
</div>
