--- 
permalink: 'colombia/investment-climate-overview.html' 
published: true 
layout: default
---
<div id="investment-climate-overview">
With increased security, a market of 47 million people, an abundance of natural resources, and an educated and growing middle-class, the Colombian government has opened the country up to global trade and investment. Colombia in 2013 had the fourth largest GDP in Latin America after Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina, and has sustained an average growth rate over four percent for the past decade. The World Bank’s 2014 “Doing Business Report” ranked Colombia 43 out of 189 for ease of doing business and recognized Colombia for best practices in protecting investors, paying taxes, and improving trade across borders. However, the survey also noted Colombia’s high transportation costs and deficiencies in enforcing contracts.

Colombia’s legal and regulatory systems are generally transparent and consistent with international norms. Colombia has a comprehensive legal framework for business and foreign direct investment (FDI), and the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement (FTA) that took effect on May 15, 2012, has strengthened trade and investment between our countries. Through the FTA and several international conventions and treaties, Colombia’s dispute settlement mechanisms and intellectual property rights protection are stronger than ever. Nevertheless, pirated and falsified products continue to be a major problem, which dictates that Colombia remains on the U.S. Trade Representative’s Special 301 “Watch List.”

The Colombian government has demonstrated great political will to develop efficient capital markets, attract investment, and create jobs. Sound fiscal and macroeconomic management has allowed Colombia to claim the triple crown of seeing its credit ratings increased to ‘Investment Grade’ level by Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s, and Fitch Ratings. Market capitalization as of December 2013 was US$215 billion. Although

restrictions to foreign ownership in specific sectors still exist, Colombia received a record US$16.8 billion in FDI in 2013. Colombia has aggressively pursued foreign investment in key sectors, such as infrastructure. For the first time in many years, Colombia’s average annual unemployment rate was under ten percent in 2013. Forty-nine percent of the workforce still works in the informal economy, but Colombia has abundant unskilled and semi-skilled labor throughout the country as well as managerial-level employees who are often bilingual.

Security in Colombia has improved significantly in the past 15 years, with the number of kidnappings down by 86 percent since 2003, and the number of homicides falling by 35 percent in the same period. Since November 2012, the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) have been conducting peace negotiations in Havana, Cuba. Even so, an active domestic insurgency is still ongoing, posing a threat to commercial activity and investment, especially in rural zones where government control is weaker. Corruption is also a significant challenge in Colombia. According to the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Index (2013-2014), corruption is the biggest problem for doing business in Colombia. The Colombian government continues to work on improving its business climate. The three largest majority state-owned enterprises, Ecopetrol, ISA, and ISAGEN, are considered models of professional management, competition, and excellent corporate governance. Through its numerous investment treaties, free trade agreements, and progress towards accession into the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Colombia has shown it is eager to increase international trade and investment.
</div>
