--- 
permalink: 'labor.html' 
published: true 
---
<h3 id="labor">Labor</h3> [Return to top](#chap6)

The labor market reflected positive results in Colombia’s healthy economy. The average annual unemployment rate in 2013 was 9.6 percent, the first time in many years under ten percent. That said, Colombia has one of the highest unemployment rates in the region. About 64.5 percent of the population actively participates in the labor force. Forty-nine percent of the workforce was working in the informal economy at the end of 2013. Colombia has abundant unskilled and semi-skilled labor throughout the country, as well as managerial-level employees who are often bilingual.

Pursuant to Colombia’s Labor Law, any group of 25 or more workers, regardless of whether they are employees of the same company or not, may form a labor union. Employees of companies with fewer than 25 employees may affiliate themselves with other labor unions. About four percent of the country’s labor force is unionized. The largest and most influential unions are composed mostly of public employees, particularly of the majority state-owned oil company and the state-run education sector. The Constitution protects the right to constitute labor unions. Strikes, when held in accordance with the law, are recognized as legal instruments to obtain better working conditions. Strikes in sectors considered essential for some public sector unions are illegal. In 2013 there were a number of nationwide strikes, particularly in the agriculture sector, resulting in a few deaths and thousands of dollars in property damage.

Labor rights in Colombia are set forth in its Constitution, the Labor Code, the Procedural Code of Labor and Social Security, sector-specific legislation, and ratified international conventions, which are incorporated into national legislation. Colombia’s Constitution guarantees freedom of association and provides for collective bargaining and the right to strike (with some exceptions). It also addresses forced labor, child labor, trafficking, discrimination, protections for women and children in the workplace, minimum wages, working hours, skills training, and social security.

Colombia has ratified all eight of the International Labor Organizations’ fundamental labor conventions and all are in force, including those related to freedom of association, equal remuneration, right to organize and collectively bargain, discrimination, minimum working age, forced labor, and prohibition of the worst forms of child labor. Colombia has also ratified conventions related to hours of work, occupational health and safety, and minimum wage. In 2013, Law 1636 was passed to increase protections and opportunities for Colombia’s unemployed population. The Ministry of Labor passed a number of resolutions and regulations, covering topics such as social security, occupational safety and health standards, formalization, and labor mediation.

Foreign companies operating in Colombia must follow the same hiring rules as national companies, regardless of the origin of the employer and the place of execution of the contract.

In 2010, Law 1429 eliminated the mandatory proportion requirement for foreign and national personnel; 100 percent of the workforce, including the board of directors, can be foreign nationals. Labor permits are not required in Colombia, except for under-aged workers. Foreign employees have the same rights as Colombian employees.

